
Tom Swift and his Motor-Cycle
or
Fun and Adventures on the Road

by Victor Appleton




 CONTENTS

    I. A NARROW ESCAPE
   II. TOM OVERHEARS SOMETHING
  III. IN A SMASH-UP
   IV. TOM AND A MOTOR-CYCLE
    V. MR. SWIFT IS ALARMED
   VI. AN INTERVIEW IN THE DARK
  VII. OFF ON A SPIN
 VIII. SUSPICIOUS ACTIONS
   IX. A FRUITLESS PURSUIT
    X. OFF TO ALBANY
   XI. A VINDICTIVE TRAMP
  XII. THE MEN IN THE AUTO
 XIII. CAUGHT IN A STORM
  XIV. ATTACKED FROM BEHIND
   XV. A VAIN SEARCH.
  XVI. BACK HOME.
 XVII. MR. SWIFT IN DESPAIR
XVIII. HAPPY HARRY AGAIN
  XIX. TOM ON A HUNT
   XX. ERADICATE SAWS WOOD
  XXI. ERADICATE GIVES A CLUE
 XXII. THE STRANGE MANSION
XXIII. TOM IS PURSUED
 XXIV. UNEXPECTED HELP
  XXV. THE CAPTURE--GOOD-BY




CHAPTER I.

A NARROW ESCAPE


"That's the way to do it! Whoop her up, Andy! Shove the spark lever
over, and tug on more gasolene! We'll make a record this trip."

Two lads in the tonneau of a touring car, that was whirling along a
country road, leaned forward to speak to the one at the steering
wheel. The latter was a red-haired youth, with somewhat squinty
eyes, and not a very pleasant face, but his companions seemed to
regard him with much favor. Perhaps it was because they were riding
in his automobile.

"Whoop her up, Andy!" added the lad on the seat beside the driver.
"This is immense!"

"I rather thought you'd like it," remarked Andy Foger, as he turned
the car to avoid a stone in the road. "I'll make things hum around
Shopton!"

"You have made them hum already, Andy," commented the lad beside
him. "My ears are ringing. Wow! There goes my cap!"

As the boy spoke, the breeze, created by the speed at which the car
was traveling, lifted off his cap, and sent it whirling to the rear.

Andy Foger turned for an instant's glance behind. Then he opened the
throttle still wider, and exclaimed:

"Let it go, Sam. We can get another. I want to see what time I can
make to Mansburg! I want to break a record, if I can."

"Look out, or you'll break something else!" cried a lad on the rear
seat. "There's a fellow on a bicycle just ahead of us. Take care,
Andy!"

"Let him look out for himself," retorted Foger, as he bent lower
over the steering wheel, for the car was now going at a terrific
rate. The youth on the bicycle was riding slowly along, and did not
see the approaching automobile until it was nearly upon him. Then,
with a mean grin, Andy Foger pressed the rubber bulb of the horn
with sudden energy, sending out a series of alarming blasts.

"It's Tom Swift!" cried Sam Snedecker. "Look out, or you'll run him
down!"

"Let him keep out of my way," retorted Andy savagely.

The youth on the wheel, with a sudden spurt of speed, tried to cross
the highway. He did manage to do it, but by such a narrow margin
that in very terror Andy Foger shut off the power, jammed down the
brakes and steered to one side. So suddenly was he obliged to swerve
over that the ponderous machine skidded and went into the ditch at
the side of the road, where it brought up, tilting to one side.

Tom Swift, his face rather pale from his narrow escape, leaped from
his bicycle, and stood regarding the automobile. As for the
occupants of that machine, from Andy Foger, the owner, to the three
cronies who were riding with him, they all looked very much
astonished.

"Are we--is it damaged any, Andy?" asked Sam Snedecker.

"I hope not," growled Andy. "If my car's hurt it's Tom Swift's
fault!"

He leaped from his seat and made a hurried inspection of the
machine. He found nothing the matter, though it was more from good
luck than good management. Then Andy turned and looked savagely at
Tom Swift. The latter, standing his wheel up against the fence,
walked forward.

"What do you mean by getting in the way like that?" demanded Andy
with a scowl. "Don't you see that you nearly upset me?"

"Well, I like your nerve, Andy Foger!" cried Tom. "What do you mean
by nearly running me down? Why didn't you sound your horn? You
automobilists take too much for granted! You were going faster than
the legal rate, anyhow!"

"I was, eh?" sneered Andy.

"Yes, you were, and you know it. I'm the one to make a kick, not
you. You came pretty near hitting me. Me getting in your way! I
guess I've got some rights on the road!"

"Aw, go on!" growled Andy, for he could think of nothing else to
say. "Bicycles are a back number, anyhow."

"It isn't so very long ago that you had one," retorted Tom. "First
you fellows know, you'll be pulled in for speeding."

"I guess we had better go slower, Andy," advised Sam in a low voice.
"I don't want to be arrested."

"Leave this to me," retorted Andy. "I'm running this tour. The next
time you get in my way I'll run you down!" he threatened Tom. "Come
on, fellows, we're late now, and can't make a record run, all on
account of him," and Andy got back into the car, followed by his
cronies, who had hurriedly alighted after their thrilling stop.

"If you try anything like this again you'll wish you hadn't,"
declared Tom, and he watched the automobile party ride off.

"Oh, forget it!" snapped back Andy, and he laughed, his companions
joining.

Tom Swift said nothing in reply. Slowly he remounted his wheel and
rode off, but his thoughts toward Andy Foger were not very pleasant
ones. Andy was the son of a wealthy man of the town, and his good
fortune in the matter of money seemed to have spoiled him, for he
was a bully and a coward. Several times he and Tom Swift had
clashed, for Andy was overbearing. But this was the first time Andy
had shown such a vindictive spirit.

"He thinks he can run over everything since he got his new auto,"
commented Tom aloud as he rode on. "He'll have a smash-up some day,
if he isn't careful. He's too fond of speeding. I wonder where he
and his crowd are going?"

Musing over his narrow escape Tom rode on, and was soon at his home,
where he lived with his widowed father, Barton Swift, a wealthy
inventor, and the latter's housekeeper, Mrs. Baggert. Approaching a
machine shop, one of several built near his house by Mr. Swift, in
which he conducted experiments and constructed apparatus. Tom was
met by his parent.

"What's the matter, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift. "You look as if something
had happened."

"Something very nearly did," answered the youth, and related his
experience on the road.

"Humph," remarked the inventor; "your little pleasure-jaunt might
have ended disastrously. I suppose Andy and his chums are off on
their trip. I remember Mr. Foger speaking to me about it the other
day. He said Andy and some companions were going on a tour, to be
gone a week or more. Well, I'm glad it was no worse. But have you
anything special to do, Tom?"

"No; I was just riding for pleasure, and if you want me to do
anything, I'm ready."

"Then I wish you'd take this letter to Mansburg for me. I want it
registered, and I don't wish to mail it in the Shopton post-office.
It's too important, for it's about a valuable invention."

"The new turbine motor, dad?"

"That's it. And on your way I wish you'd stop in Merton's machine
shop and get some bolts he's making for me."

"I will. Is that the letter?" and Tom extended his hand for a
missive his father held.

"Yes. Please be careful of it. It's to my lawyers in Washington
regarding the final steps in getting a patent for the turbine.
That's why I'm so particular about not wanting it mailed here.
Several times before I have posted letters here, only to have the
information contained in them leak out before my attorneys received
them. I do not want that to happen in this case. Another thing;
don't speak about my new invention in Merton's shop when you stop
for the bolts."

"Why, do you think he gave out information concerning your work?"

"Well, not exactly. He might not mean to, but he told me the other
day that some strangers were making inquiries of him, about whether
he ever did any work for me."

"What did he tell them?"

"He said that he occasionally did, but that most of my inventive
work was done in my own shops, here. He wanted to know why the men
were asking such questions, and one of them said they expected to
open a machine shop soon, and wanted to ascertain if they might
figure on getting any of my trade. But I don't believe that was
their object."

"What do you think it was?"

"I don't know, exactly, but I was somewhat alarmed when I heard this
from Merton. So I am going to take no risks. That's why I send this
letter to Mansburg. Don't lose it, and don't forget about the bolts.
Here is a blue-print of them, so you can see if they come up to the
specifications."

Tom rode off on his wheel, and was soon spinning down the road.

"I wonder if I'll meet Andy Foger and his cronies again?" he
thought. "Not very likely to, I guess, if they're off on a tour.
Well, I'm just as well satisfied. He and I always seem to get into
trouble when we meet." Tom was not destined to meet Andy again that
day, but the time was to come when the red-haired bully was to cause
Tom Swift no little trouble, and get him into danger besides. So Tom
rode along, thinking over what his father had said to him about the
letter he carried.

Mr. Barton Swift was a natural inventor. From a boy he had been
interested in things mechanical, and one of his first efforts had
been to arrange a system of pulleys, belts and gears so that the
windmill would operate the churn in the old farmhouse where he was
born. The fact that the mill went so fast that it broke the churn
all to pieces did not discourage him, and he at once set to work,
changing the gears. His father had to buy a new churn, but the young
inventor made his plan work on the second trial, and thereafter his
mother found butter-making easy.

From then on Barton Swift lived in a world of inventions. People
used to say he would never amount to anything, that inventors never
did, but Mr. Swift proved them all wrong by amassing a considerable
fortune out of his many patents. He grew up, married and had one
son, Tom. Mrs. Barton died when Tom was three years old, and since
then he had lived with his father and a succession of nurses and
housekeepers. The last woman to have charge of the household was a
Mrs. Baggert, a motherly widow, and she succeeded so well, and Tom
and his father formed such an attachment for her, that she was
regarded as a fixture, and had now been in charge ten years.

Mr. Swift and his son lived in a handsome house on the outskirts of
the village of Shopton, in New York State. The village was near a
large body of water, which I shall call Lake Carlopa, and there Tom
and his father used to spend many pleasant days boating, for Tom and
the inventor were better chums than many boys are, and they were
often seen together in a craft rowing about, or fishing. Of course
Tom had some boy friends, but he went with his father more often
than he did with them.

Though many of Mr. Swift's inventions paid him well, he was
constantly seeking to perfect others. To this end he had built near
his home several machine shops, with engines, lathes and apparatus
for various kinds of work. Tom, too, had the inventive fever in his
veins, and had planned some useful implements and small machines.

Along the pleasant country roads on a fine day in April rode Tom
Swift on his way to Mansburg to register the letter. As he descended
a little hill he saw, some distance away, but coming toward him, a
great cloud of dust.

"Somebody must be driving a herd of cattle along the road," thought
Tom. "I hope they don't get in my way, or, rather, I hope I don't
get in theirs. Guess I'd better keep to one side, yet there isn't
any too much room."

The dust-cloud came nearer. It was so dense that whoever or whatever
was making it could not be distinguished.

"Must be a lot of cattle in that bunch," mused the young inventor,
"but I shouldn't think they'd trot them so on a warm day like this.
Maybe they're stampeded. If they are I've got to look out." This
idea caused him some alarm.

He tried to peer through the dust-cloud, but could not. Nearer and
nearer it came. Tom kept on, taking care to get as far to the side
of the road as he could. Then from the midst of the enveloping mass
came the sound of a steady "chug-chug."

"It's a motor-cycle!" exclaimed Tom. "He must have his muffler wide
open, and that's kicking up as much dust as the wheels do. Whew! But
whoever's on it will look like a clay image at the end of the line!"

Now that he knew it was a fellow-cyclist who was raising such a
disturbance, Tom turned more toward the middle of the road. As yet
he had not had a sight of the rider, but the explosions of the motor
were louder. Suddenly, when the first advancing particles of dust
reached him, almost making him sneeze, Tom caught sight of the
rider. He was a man of middle age, and he was clinging to the
handle-bars of the machine. The motor was going at full speed.

Tom quickly turned to one side, to avoid the worst of the dust. The
motor-cyclist glanced at the youth, but this act nearly proved
disastrous for him. He took his eyes from the road ahead for just a
moment, and he did not see a large stone directly in his path. His
front wheel hit it, and the heavy machine, which he could not
control very well, skidded over toward the lad on the bicycle. The
motor-cyclist bounced up in the air from the saddle, and nearly lost
his hold on the handle-bars.

"Look out!" cried Tom. "You'll smash into me!"

"I'm--I'm--try--ing--not--to!" were the words that were rattled out
of the middle-aged man.

Tom gave his wheel a desperate twist to get out of the way. The
motor-cyclist tried to do the same, but the machine he was on
appeared to want matters its own way. He came straight for Tom, and
a disastrous collision might have resulted had not another stone
been in the way. The front wheel hit this, and was swerved to one
side. The motor-cycle flashed past Tom, just grazing his wheel, and
then was lost to sight beyond in a cloud of dust that seemed to
follow it like a halo.

"Why don't you learn to ride before you come out on the road!" cried
Tom somewhat angrily.

Like an echo from the dust-cloud came floating back these words:

"I'm--try--ing--to!" Then the sound of the explosions became
fainter.

"Well, he's got lots to learn yet!" exclaimed Tom. "That's twice
to-day I've nearly been run down. I expect I'd better look out for the
third time. They say that's always fatal," and the lad leaped from his
wheel. "Wonder if he bent any of my spokes?" the young inventor
continued as he inspected his bicycle.




CHAPTER II.

TOM OVERHEARS SOMETHING


"Everything seems to be all right," Tom remarked, "but another inch
or so and he'd have crashed into me. I wonder who he was? I wish I
had a machine like that. I could make better time than I can on my
bicycle. Perhaps I'll get one some day. Well, I might as well ride
on."

Tom was soon at Mansburg, and going to the post-office handed in the
letter for registry. Bearing in mind his father's words, he looked
about to see if there were any suspicious characters, but the only
person he noticed was a well-dressed man, with a black mustache, who
seemed to be intently studying the schedule of the arrival and
departure of the mails.

"Do you want the receipt for the registered letter sent to you here
or at Shopton?" asked the clerk of Tom. "Come to think of it,
though, it will have to come here, and you can call for it. I'll
have it returned to Mr. Barton Swift, care of general delivery, and
you can get it the next time you are over," for the clerk knew Tom.

"That will do," answered our hero, and as he turned away from the
window he saw that the man who had been inquiring about the mails
was regarding him curiously. Tom thought nothing of it at the time,
but there came an occasion when he wished that he had taken more
careful note of the well-dressed individual. As the youth passed out
of the outer door he saw the man walk over to the registry window.

"He seems to have considerable mail business," thought Tom, and then
the matter passed from his mind as he mounted his wheel and hurried
to the machine shop.

"Say, I'm awfully sorry," announced Mr. Merton when Tom said he had
come for the bolts, "but they're not quite done. They need
polishing. I know I promised them to your father to-day, and he can
have them, but he was very particular about the polish, and as one
of my best workers was taken sick, I'm a little behind."

"How long will it take to polish them?" asked Tom.

"Oh, about an hour. In fact, a man is working on them now. If you
could call this afternoon they'll be ready. Can you?"

"I s'pose I've got to," replied Tom good-naturedly. "Guess I'll have
to stay in Mansburg for dinner. I can't get back to Shopton in time
now."

"I'll be sure to have them for you after dinner," promised Mr.
Merton. "Now, there's a matter I want to speak to you about, Tom.
Has your father any idea of giving the work he has been turning over
to me to some other firm?"

"Not that I know of. Why?" and the lad showed his wonder.

"Well, I'll tell you why. Some time ago there was a stranger in
here, asking about your father's work. I told Mr. Swift of it at the
time. The stranger said then that he and some others were thinking
of opening a machine shop, and he wanted to find out whether they
would be likely to get any jobs from your father. I told the man I
knew nothing about Mr. Swift's business, and he went away. I didn't
hear any more of it, though of course I didn't want to lose your
father's trade. Now a funny thing happened. Only this morning the
same man was back here, and he was making particular inquiries about
your father's private machine shops."

"He was?" exclaimed Tom excitedly.

"Yes. He wanted to know where they were located, how they were laid
out, and what sort of work he did in them."

"What did you tell him?"

"Nothing at all. I suspected something, and I said the best way for
him to find out would be to go and see your father. Wasn't that
right?"

"Sure. Dad doesn't want his business known any more than he can
help. What do you suppose they wanted?"

"Well, the man talked as though he and his partners would like to
buy your father's shops."

"I don't believe he'd sell. He has them arranged just for his own
use in making patents, and I'm sure he would not dispose of them."

"Well, that's what I thought, but I didn't tell the man so. I judged
it would be best for him to find out for himself."

"What was the man's name?"

"He didn't tell me, and I didn't ask him."

"How did he look?"

"Well, he was well dressed, wore kid gloves and all that, and he had
a little black mustache."

Tom started, and Mr. Merton noticed it.

"Do you know him?" he asked.

"No," replied Tom, "but I saw--" Then he stopped. He recalled the
man he had seen in the post-office. He answered this description,
but it was too vague to be certain.

"Did you say you'd seen him?" asked Mr. Merton, regarding Tom
curiously.

"No--yes--that is--well, I'll tell my father about it," stammered
Tom, who concluded that it would be best to say nothing of his
suspicions. "I'll be back right after dinner, Mr. Merton. Please
have the bolts ready for me, if you can."

"I will. Is your father going to use them in a new machine?"

"Yes; dad is always making new machines," answered the youth, as the
most polite way of not giving the proprietor of the shop any
information. "I'll be back right after dinner," he called as he went
out to get on his wheel.

Tom was much puzzled. He felt certain that the man in the post-office
and the one who had questioned Mr. Merton were the same.

"There is something going on, that dad should know about," reflected
Tom. "I must tell him. I don't believe it will be wise to send any
more of his patent work over to Merton. We must do it in the shops
at home, and dad and I will have to keep our eyes open. There may be
spies about seeking to discover something about his new turbine
motor. I'll hurry back with those bolts and tell dad. But first I
must get lunch. I'll go to the restaurant and have a good feed while
I'm at it."

Tom had plenty of spending money, some of which came from a small
patent he had marketed himself. He left his wheel outside the
restaurant, first taking the precaution to chain the wheels, and
then went inside. Tom was hungry and ordered a good meal. He was
about half way through it when some one called his name.

"Hello, Ned!" he answered, looking up to see a youth about his own
age. "Where did you blow in from?"

"Oh, I came over from Shopton this morning," replied Ned Newton,
taking a seat at the table with Tom. The two lads were chums, and in
their younger days had often gone fishing, swimming and hunting
together. Now Ned worked in the Shopton bank, and Tom was so busy
helping his father, so they did not see each other so often.

"On business or pleasure?" asked Tom, putting some more sugar in his
coffee.

"Business. I had to bring some papers over from our bank to the
First National here. But what about you?"

"Oh, I came on dad's account."

"Invented anything new?" asked Ned as he gave his order to the
waitress.

"No, nothing since the egg-beater I was telling you about. But I'm
working on some things."

"Why don't you invent an automobile or an airship?"

"Maybe I will some day, but, speaking of autos, did you see the one
Andy Foger has?"

"Yes; it's a beaut! Have you seen it?"

"Altogether at too close range. He nearly ran over me this morning,"
and the young inventor related the occurrence.

"Oh, Andy always was too fresh," commented Ned; "and since his
father let him get the touring car I suppose he'll be worse than
ever."

"Well, if he tries to run me down again he'll get into trouble,"
declared Tom, calling for a second cup of coffee.

The two chums began conversing on more congenial topics, and Ned was
telling of a new camera he had, when, from a table directly behind
him, Tom heard some one say in rather loud tones:

"The plant is located in Shopton, all right, and the buildings are
near Swift's house."

Tom started, and listened more intently.

"That will make it more difficult," one man answered. "But if the
invention is as valuable as--"

"Hush!" came a caution from another of the party. "This is too
public a place to discuss the matter. Wait until we get out. One of
us will have to see Swift, of course, and if he proves stubborn--"

"I guess you'd better hush yourself," retorted the man who had first
spoken, and then the voices subsided.

But Tom Swift had overheard something which made him vaguely afraid.
He started so at the sound of his father's name that he knocked a
fork from the table.

"What's the matter; getting nervous?" asked Ned with a laugh.

"I guess so," replied Tom, and when he stooped to pick the fork up,
not waiting for the girl who was serving at his table, he stole a
look at the strangers who had just entered. He was startled to note
that one of the men was the same he had seen in the post-office--the
man who answered the description of the one who had been inquiring
of Mr. Merton about the Swift shops.

"I'm going to keep my ears open," thought Tom as he went on eating
his dinner.




CHAPTER III.

IN A SMASH-UP


Though the young inventor listened intently, in an endeavor to hear
the conversation of the men at the table behind him, all he could
catch was an indistinct murmur. The strangers appeared to have
heeded the caution of one of their number and were speaking in low
tones.

Tom and Ned finished their meal, and started to leave the
restaurant. As Mr. Swift's son passed the table where the men sat
they looked up quickly at him. Two of them gave Tom but a passing
glance, but one--he whom the young inventor had noticed in the
post-office--stared long and intently.

"I think he will know me the next time he sees me," thought Tom, and
he boldly returned the glance of the stranger.

The bolts were ready when the inventor's son called at the machine
shop a second time, and making a package of them Tom fastened it to
the saddle of his bicycle. He started for home at a fast pace, and
was just turning from a cross road into the main highway when he saw
ahead of him a woman driving a light wagon. As the sun flashed on
Tom's shining wheel the horse gave a sudden leap, swerved to one
side, and then bolted down the dusty stretch, the woman screaming at
the top of her voice.

"A runaway!" cried Tom; "and partly my fault, too!"

Waiting not an instant the lad bent over his handle-bars and pedaled
with all his force. His bicycle seemed fairly to leap forward after
the galloping horse.

"Sit still! Don't jump out! Don't jump!" yelled the young inventor.
"I'll try to catch him!" for the woman was standing up in front of
the seat and leaning forward, as if about to leap from the wagon.

"She's lost her head," thought Tom. "No wonder! That's a skittish
horse."

Faster and faster he rode, bending all his energies to overtake the
animal. The wagon was swaying from side to side, and more than once
the woman just saved herself from being thrown out by grasping the
edge of the seat. She found that her standing position was a
dangerous one and crouched on the bottom of the swaying vehicle.

"That's better!" shouted Tom, but it is doubtful if she heard him,
for the rattling of the wagon and the hoofbeats of the horse drowned
all other sounds. "Sit still!" he shouted. "I'll stop the horse for
you!"

Trying to imagine himself in a desperate race, in order to excite
himself to greater speed, Tom continued on. He was now even with the
tail-board of the wagon, and slowly creeping up. The woman was all
huddled up in a lump.

"Grab the reins! Grab the reins!" shouted Tom. "Saw on the bit! That
will stop him!"

The occupant of the wagon turned to look at the lad. Tom saw that
she was a handsome young lady. "Grab the reins!" he cried again.
"Pull hard!"

"I--I can't!" she answered frightenedly. "They have dropped down!
Oh, do please stop the horse! I'm so--so frightened!"

"I'll stop him!" declared the youth firmly, and he set his teeth
hard. Then he saw the reason the fair driver could not grasp the
lines. They had slipped over the dashboard and were trailing on the
ground.

The horse was slacking speed a bit now, for the pace was telling on
his wind. Tom saw his opportunity, and with a sudden burst of energy
was at the animal's head. Steering his wheel with one hand, with the
other the lad made a grab for the reins near the bit. The horse
swerved frightenedly to one side, but Tom swung in the same
direction. He grasped the leather and then, with a kick, he freed
himself from the bicycle, giving it a shove to one side. He was now
clinging to the reins with both hands, and, being a muscular lad and
no lightweight, his bulk told.

"Sit--still!" panted our hero to the young woman, who had arisen to
the seat. "I'll have him stopped in half a minute now!"

It was in less time than that, for the horse, finding it impossible
to shake off the grip of Tom, began to slow from a gallop to a trot,
then to a canter, and finally to a slow walk. A moment later the
horse had stopped, breathing heavily from his run.

"There, there, now!" spoke Tom soothingly. "You're all right, old
fellow. I hope you're not hurt"--this to the young lady--and Tom
made a motion to raise his cap, only to find that it had blown off.

"Oh, no--no; I'm more frightened than hurt."

"It was all my fault," declared the young inventor. "I should not
have swung into the road so suddenly. My bicycle alarmed your
horse."

"Oh, I fancy Dobbin is easily disturbed," admitted the fair driver.
"I can't thank you enough for stopping him. You saved me from a bad
accident."

"It was the least I could do. Are you all right now?" and he handed
up the dangling reins. "I think Dobbin, as you call him, has had
enough of running," went on Tom, for the horse was now quiet.

"I hope so. Yes, I am all right. I trust your wheel is not damaged.
If it is, my father, Mr. Amos Nestor, of Mansburg, will gladly pay
for its repair."

This reminded the young inventor of his bicycle, and making sure
that the horse would not start up again, he went to where his wheel
and his cap lay. He found that the only damage to the bicycle was a
few bent spokes, and, straightening them and having again apologized
to the young woman, receiving in turn her pardon and thanks, and
learning that her name was Mary Nestor, Tom once more resumed his
trip. The wagon followed him at a distance, the horse evincing no
desire now to get out of a slow amble.

"Well, things are certainly happening to me to-day," mused Tom as he
pedaled on. "That might have been a serious runaway if there'd been
anything in the road."

Tom did not stop to think that he had been mainly instrumental in
preventing a bad accident, as he had been the innocent cause of
starting the runaway, but Tom was ever a modest lad. His arms were
wrenched from jerking on the bridle, but he did not mind that much,
and bent over the handle-bars to make up for lost time.

Our hero was within a short distance of his house and was coasting
easily along when, just ahead of him, he saw a cloud of dust, very
similar to the one that had, some time before, concealed the
inexperienced motor-cyclist.

"I wonder if that's him again?" thought Tom. "If it is I'm going to
hang back until I see which way he's headed. No use running any more
risks."

Almost at that moment a puff of wind blew some of the dust to one
side. Tom had a glimpse of the man on the puffing machine.

"It's the same chap!" he exclaimed aloud; "and he's going the same
way I am. Well, I'll not try to catch up to him. I wonder what he's
been doing all this while, that he hasn't gotten any farther than
this? Either he's been riding back and forth, or else he's been
resting. My, but he certainly is scooting along!"

The wind carried to Tom the sound of the explosions of the motor,
and he could see the man clinging tightly to the handle-bars. The
rider was almost in front of Tom's house now, when, with a
suddenness that caused the lad to utter an exclamation of alarm, the
stranger turned his machine right toward a big oak tree.

"What's he up to?" cried Tom excitedly. "Does he think he can climb
that, or is he giving an exhibition by showing how close he can come
and not hit it?"

A moment later the motor-cyclist struck the tree a glancing blow.
The man went flying over the handle-bars, the machine was shunted to
the ditch along the road, and falling over on one side the motor
raced furiously. The rider lay in a heap at the foot of the tree.

"My, that was a smash!" cried Tom. "He must be killed!" and bending
forward, he raced toward the scene of the accident.




CHAPTER IV.

TOM AND A MOTOR-CYCLE


When Tom reached the prostrate figure on the grass at the foot of
the old oak tree, the youth bent quickly over the man. There was an
ugly cut on his head, and blood was flowing from it. But Tom quickly
noticed that the stranger was breathing, though not very strongly.

"Well, he's not dead--just yet!" exclaimed the youth with a sigh of
relief. "But I guess he's pretty badly hurt. I must get help--no,
I'll take him into our house. It's not far. I'll call dad."

Leaning his wheel against the tree Tom started for his home, about
three hundred feet away, and then he noticed that the stranger's
motor-cycle was running at full speed on the ground.

"Guess I'd better shut off the power!" he exclaimed. "No use letting
the machine be ruined." Tom had a natural love for machinery, and it
hurt him almost as much to see a piece of fine apparatus abused as
it did to see an animal mistreated. It was the work of a
moment to shut off the gasolene and spark, and then the youth raced
on toward his house.

"Where's dad?" he called to Mrs. Baggert, who was washing the
dishes.

"Out in one of the shops," replied the housekeeper. "Why, Tom," she
went on hurriedly as she saw how excited he was, "whatever has
happened?"

"Man hurt--out in front--motor-cycle smash--I'm going to bring him
in here--get some things ready--I'll find dad!"

"Bless and save us!" cried Mrs. Baggert. "Whatever are we coming to?
Who's hurt? How did it happen? Is he dead?"

"Haven't time to talk now!" answered Tom, rushing from the house.
"Dad and I will bring him in here."

Tom found his father in one of the three small machine shops on the
grounds about the Swift home. The youth hurriedly told what had
happened.

"Of course we'll bring him right in here!" assented Mr. Swift,
putting aside the work upon which he was engaged. "Did you tell Mrs.
Baggert?"

"Yes, and she's all excited."

"Well, she can't help it, being a woman, I suppose. But we'll
manage. Do you know the man?"

"Never saw him before to-day, when he tried to run me down. Guess he
doesn't know much about motor-cycles. But come on, dad. He may bleed
to death."

Father and son hurried to where the stranger lay. As they bent over
him he opened his eyes and asked faintly:

"Where am I? What happened?"

"You're all right--in good hands," said Mr. Swift. "Are you much
hurt?"

"Not much--mostly stunned, I guess. What happened?" he repeated.

"You and your motor-cycle tried to climb a tree," remarked Tom with
grim humor.

"Oh, yes, I remember now. I couldn't seem to steer out of the way.
And I couldn't shut off the power in time. Is the motor-cycle much
damaged?"

"The front wheel is," reported Tom, after an inspection, "and there
are some other breaks, but I guess--"

"I wish it was all smashed!" exclaimed the man vigorously. "I never
want to see it again!"

"Why, don't you like it?" asked Tom eagerly.

"No, and I never will," the man spoke faintly but determinedly.

"Never mind now," interposed Mr. Swift. "Don't excite yourself. My
son and I will take you to our house and send for a doctor."

"I'll bring the motor-cycle, after we've carried you in," added Tom.

"Don't worry about the machine. I never want to see it again!" went
on the man, rising to a sitting position. "It nearly killed me twice
to-day. I'll never ride again."

"You'll feel differently after the doctor fixes you up," said Mr.
Swift with a smile.

"Doctor! I don't need a doctor," cried the stranger. "I am only
bruised and shaken up."

"You have a bad cut on your head," said Tom.

"It isn't very deep," went on the injured man, placing his fingers
on it. "Fortunately I struck the tree a glancing blow. If you will
allow me to rest in your house a little while and give me some
plaster for the cut I shall be all right again."

"Can you walk, or shall we carry you?" asked Tom's father.

"Oh, I can walk, if you'll support me a little." And the stranger
proved that he could do this by getting to his feet and taking a few
steps. Mr. Swift and his son took hold of his arms and led him to
the house. There he was placed on a lounge and given some simple
restoratives by Mrs. Baggert, who, when she found the accident was
not serious, recovered her composure.

"I must have been unconscious for a few minutes," went on the man.

"You were," explained Tom. "When I got up to you I thought you were
dead, until I saw you breathe. Then I shut off the power of your
machine and ran in for dad. I've got the motor-cycle outside. You
can't ride it for some time, I'm afraid, Mr.--er--" and Tom stopped
in some confusion, for he realized that he did not know the man's
name.

"I beg your pardon for not introducing myself before," went on the
stranger. "I'm Wakefield Damon, of Waterfield. But don't worry about
me riding that machine again. I never shall."

"Oh, perhaps--" began Mr. Swift.

"No, I never shall," went on Mr. Damon positively. "My doctor told
me to get it, as he thought riding around the country would benefit
my health. I shall tell him his prescription nearly killed me."

"And me too," added Tom with a laugh.

"How--why--are you the young man I nearly ran down this morning?"
asked Mr. Damon, suddenly sitting up and looking at the youth.

"I am," answered our hero.

"Bless my soul! So you are!" cried Mr. Damon. "I was wondering who
it could be. It's quite a coincidence. But I was in such a cloud of
dust I couldn't make out who it was."

"You had your muffler open, and that made considerable dust,"
explained Tom.

"Was that it? Bless my existence! I thought something was wrong, but
I couldn't tell what. I went over all the instructions in the book
and those the agent told me, but I couldn't think of the right one.
I tried all sorts of things to make less dust, but I couldn't. Then,
bless my eyelashes, if the machine didn't stop just after I nearly
ran into you. I tinkered over it for an hour or more before I could
get it to going again. Then I ran into the tree. My doctor told me
the machine would do my liver good, but, bless my happiness, I'd as
soon be without a liver entirely as to do what I've done to-day. I
am done with motor-cycling!"

A hopeful look came over Tom's face, but he said nothing, that is,
not just then. In a little while Mr. Damon felt so much better that
he said he would start for home. "I'm afraid you'll have to leave
your machine here," said Tom.

"You can send for it any time you want to," added Mr. Swift.

"Bless my hatband!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, who appeared to be very
fond of blessing his various organs and his articles of wearing
apparel. "Bless my hatband! I never want to see it again! If you
will be so kind as to keep it for me, I will send a junk man after
it. I will never spend anything on having it repaired. I am done
with that form of exercise--liver or no liver--doctor or no doctor."

He appeared very determined. Tom quickly made up his mind. Mr. Damon
had gone to the bathroom to get rid of some of the mud on his hands
and face.

"Father," said Tom earnestly, "may I buy that machine off him?"

"What? Buy a broken motor-cycle?"

"I can easily fix it. It is a fine make, and in good condition. I
can repair it. I've wanted a motor-cycle for some time, and here's a
chance to get a good one cheap."

"You don't need to do that," replied Mr. Swift. "You have money
enough to buy a new one if you want it. I never knew you cared for
them."

"I didn't, until lately. But I'd rather buy this one and fix it up
than get a new one. Besides, I have an idea for a new kind of
transmission, and perhaps I can work it out on this machine."

"Oh, well, if you want it for experimental purposes, I suppose it
will be as good as any. Go ahead, get it if you wish, but don't give
too much for it."

"I'll not. I fancy I can get it cheap."

Mr. Damon returned to the living-room, where he had first been
carried.

"I cannot thank you enough for what you have done for me," he said.
"I might have lain there for hours. Bless my very existence! I have
had a very narrow escape. Hereafter when I see anyone on a motor-cycle
I shall turn my head away. The memory will be too painful," and he
touched the plaster that covered a cut on his head.

"Mr. Damon," said Tom quickly, "will you sell me that motor-cycle?"

"Bless my finger rings! Sell you that mass of junk?"

"It isn't all junk," went on the young inventor. "I can easily fix
it; though, of course," he added prudently, "it will cost something.
How much would you want for it?"

"Well," replied Mr. Damon, "I paid two hundred and fifty dollars
last week. I have ridden a hundred miles on it. That is at the rate
of two dollars and a half a mile--pretty expensive riding. But if
you are in earnest I will let you have the machine for fifty
dollars, and then I fear that I will be taking advantage of you."

"I'll give you fifty dollars," said Tom quickly, and Mr. Damon
exclaimed:

"Bless my liver--that is, if I have one. Do you mean it?"

Tom nodded. "I'll fetch you the money right away," he said, starting
for his room. He got the cash from a small safe he had arranged,
which was fitted up with an ingenious burglar alarm, and was on his
way downstairs when he heard his father call out:

"Here! What do you want? Go away from that shop! No one is allowed
there!" and looking from an upper window, Tom saw his father running
toward a stranger, who was just stepping inside the shop where Mr.
Swift was constructing his turbine motor. Tom started as he saw that
the stranger was the same black-mustached man whom he had noticed in
the post-office, and, later, in the restaurant at Mansburg.




CHAPTER V.

MR. SWIFT IS ALARMED


Stuffing the money which he intended to give to Mr. Damon in his
pocket, Tom ran downstairs. As he passed through the living-room,
intending to see what the disturbance was about, and, if necessary,
aid his father, the owner of the broken motor-cycle exclaimed:

"What's the matter? What has happened? Bless my coat-tails, but is
anything wrong?"

"I don't know," answered Tom. "There is a stranger about the shop,
and my father never allows that. I'll be back in a minute."

"Take your time," advised the somewhat eccentric Mr. Damon. "I find
my legs are a bit weaker than I suspected, and I will be glad to
rest a while longer. Bless my shoelaces, but don't hurry!"

Tom went into the rear yard, where the shops, in a small cluster of
buildings, were located. He saw his father confronting the man with
the black mustache, and Mr. Swift was saying:

"What do you want? I allow no people to come in here unless I or my
son invites them. Did you wish to see me?"

"Are you Mr. Barton Swift?" asked the man.

"Yes, that is my name."

"The inventor of the Swift safety lamp, and the turbine motor?"

At the mention of the motor Mr. Swift started.

"I am the inventor of the safety lamp you mention," he said stiffly,
"but I must decline to talk about the motor. May I ask where you
obtained your information concerning it?"

"Why, I am not at liberty to tell," went on the man. "I called to
see if we could negotiate with you for the sale of it. Parties whom
I represent--"

At that moment Tom plucked his father by the sleeve.

"Dad," whispered the youth, "I saw him in Mansburg. I think he is
one of several who have been inquiring in Mr. Merton's shop about
you and your patents. I wouldn't have anything to do with him until
I found out more about him."

"Is that so?" asked Mr. Swift quickly. Then, turning to the
stranger, he said: "My son tells me--"

But Mr. Swift got no further, for at that moment the stranger caught
sight of Tom, whom he had not noticed before.

"Ha!" exclaimed the man. "I have forgotten something--an important
engagement--will be back directly--will see you again, Mr. Swift--excuse
the trouble I have put you to--I am in a great hurry," and before
father or son could stop him, had they any desire to, the man
turned and walked quickly from the yard.

Mr. Swift stood staring at him, and so did Tom. Then the inventor
asked:

"Do you know that man? What about him, Tom? Why did he leave so
hurriedly?"

"I don't know his name," replied Tom, "but I am suspicious regarding
him, and I think he left because he suddenly recognized me."
Thereupon he told his father of seeing the man in the post-office,
and hearing the talk of the same individual and two companions in
the restaurant.

"And so you think they are up to some mischief, Tom?" asked the
parent when the son had finished.

"Well, I wouldn't go quite as far as that, but I think they are
interested in your patents, and you ought to know whether you want
them to be, or not."

"I most certainly do not--especially in the turbine motor. That is
my latest invention, and, I think, will prove very valuable. But,
though I have not mentioned it before, I expect to have trouble with
it. Soon after I perfected it, with the exception of some minor
details, I received word from a syndicate of rich men that I was
infringing on a motor, the patent of which they controlled."

"This surprised me for two reasons. One was because I did not know
that any one knew I had invented the motor. I had kept the matter
secret, and I am at a loss to know how it leaked out. To prevent any
further information concerning my plans becoming public, I sent you
to Mansburg to-day. But it seems that the precaution was of little
avail. Another matter of surprise was the information that I was
infringing on the patent of some one else. I had a very careful
examination made, and I found that the syndicate of rich men was
wrong. I was not infringing. In fact, though the motor they have is
somewhat like mine, there is one big difference--theirs does not
work, while mine does. Their patents are worthless."

"Then what do you think is their object?"

"I think they want to get control of my invention of the turbine
motor, Tom. That is what has been worrying me lately. I know these
men to be unscrupulous, and, with plenty of money, they may make
trouble for me."

"But can't you fight them in the courts?"

"Yes, I could do that. It is not as if I was a poor man, but I do
not like lawsuits. I want to live quietly and invent things. I
dislike litigation. However, if they force it on me I will fight!"
exclaimed Mr. Swift determinedly.

"Do you think this man was one of the crowd of financiers?" asked
Tom.

"It would be hard to say. I did not like his actions, and the fact
that he sneaked in here, as if he was trying to get possession of
some of my models or plans, makes it suspicious."

"It certainly does," agreed Tom. "Now, if we only knew his name we
could--"

He suddenly paused in his remark and sprang forward. He picked up an
envelope that had dropped where the stranger had been standing.

"The man lost this from his pocket, dad," said Tom eagerly. "It's a
telegram. Shall we look at it?"

"I think we will be justified in protecting ourselves. Is the
envelope open?"

"Yes."

"Then read the telegram."

Tom drew out a folded yellow slip of paper. It was a short message.
He read:

"'Anson Morse, Mansburg. See Swift to-day. Make offer. If not
accepted do the best you can. Spare no effort. Don't give plans
away.'"

"Is that all?" asked Mr. Swift.

"All except the signature."

"Who is the telegram signed by?"

"By Smeak & Katch," answered Tom.

"Those rascally lawyers!" exclaimed his father. "I was beginning to
suspect this. That is the firm which represents the syndicate of
wealthy men who are trying to get my turbine motor patents away from
me. Tom, we must be on our guard! They will wage a fierce fight
against me, for they have sunk many thousands of dollars in a
worthless machine, and are desperate."

"We'll fight 'em!" cried Tom. "You and I, dad! We'll show 'em that
the firm of Swift & Son is swift by name and swift by nature!"

"Good!" exclaimed the inventor. "I'm glad you feel that way about
it, Tom. But we are going to have no easy task. Those men are rich
and unscrupulous. We shall have to be on guard constantly. Let me
have that telegram. It may come in useful. Now I must send word to
Reid & Crawford, my attorneys in Washington, to be on the lookout.
Matters are coming to a curious pass."

As Mr. Swift and his son started for the house, they met Mr. Damon
coming toward them.

"Bless my very existence!" cried the eccentric man. "I was beginning
to fear something had happened to you. I am glad that you are all
right. I heard voices, and I imagined--"

"It's all right," Mr. Swift reassured him. "There was a stranger
about my shop, and I never allow that. Do you feel well enough to
go? If not we shall be glad to have you remain with us. We have
plenty of room."

"Oh, thank you very much, but I must be going. I feel much better.
Bless my gaiters, but I never will trust myself in even an
automobile again! I will renounce gasolene from now on."

"That reminds me," spoke Tom. "I have the money for the motor-cycle,"
and he drew out the bills. "You are sure you will not regret your
bargain, Mr. Damon? The machine is new, and needs only slight
repairs. Fifty dollars is--"

"Tut, tut, young man! I feel as if I was getting the best of you.
Bless my handkerchief! I hope you have no bad luck with it."

"I'll try and be careful," promised Tom with a smile as he handed
over the money. "I am going to gear it differently and put some
improvements on it. Then I will use it instead of my bicycle."

"It would have to be very much improved before I trusted myself on
it again," declared Mr. Damon. "Well, I appreciate what you have
done for me, and if at any time I can reciprocate the favor, I will
only be too glad to do so. Bless my soul, though, I hope I don't
have to rescue you from trying to climb a tree," and with a laugh,
which showed that he had fully recovered from his mishap, he shook
hands with father and son and left.

"A very nice man, Tom," commented Mr. Swift. "Somewhat odd and out
of the ordinary, but a very fine character, for all that."

"That's what I say," added the son. "Now, dad, you'll see me
scooting around the country on a motor-cycle. I've always wanted
one, and now I have a bargain."

"Do you think you can repair it?"

"Of course, dad. I've done more difficult things than that. I'm
going to take it apart now, and see what it needs."

"Before you do that, Tom, I wish you would take a telegram to town
for me. I must wire my lawyers at once."

"Dad looks worried," thought Tom as he wheeled the broken motor-cycle
into a machine shop, where he did most of his work. "Well, I don't
blame him. But we'll get the best of those scoundrels yet!"




CHAPTER VI.

AN INTERVIEW IN THE DARK


While Mr. Swift was writing the message he wished his son to take to
the village, the young mechanic inspected the motor-cycle he had
purchased. Tom found that a few repairs would suffice to put it in
good shape, though an entire new front wheel would be needed. The
motor had not been damaged, as he ascertained by a test. Tom rode
into town on his bicycle, and as he hurried along he noticed in the
west a bank of ugly-looking clouds that indicated a shower.

"I'm in for a wetting before I get back," he mused, and he increased
his speed, reaching the telegraph office shortly before seven
o'clock.

"Think this storm will hold off until I get home?" asked Tom.

"I'm afraid not," answered the agent. "You'd better get a hustle
on."

Tom sprinted off. It was getting dark rapidly, and when he was about
a mile from home he felt several warm drops on his face.

"Here it comes!" exclaimed the youth. "Now for a little more speed!"

Tom pressed harder on the pedals, too hard, in fact, for an instant
later something snapped, and the next he knew he was flying over the
handle-bars of the bicycle. At the same time there was a metallic,
clinking sound.

"Chain's busted!" exclaimed the lad as he picked himself up out of
the dust. "Well, wouldn't that jar you!" and he walked back to
where, in the dusk, he could dimly discern his wheel.

The chain had come off the two sprockets and was lying to one side.
Tom picked it up and ascertained by close observation that the screw
and nut holding the two joining links together was lost.

"Nice pickle!" he murmured. "How am I going to find it in all this
dust and darkness?" he asked himself disgustedly. "I'll carry an
extra screw next time. No, I won't, either. I'll ride my motor-cycle
next time. Well, I may as well give a look around. I hate to walk,
if I can fix it and ride."

Tom had not spent more than two minutes looking about the dusty
road, with the aid of matches, for the screw, when the rain suddenly
began falling in a hard shower.

"Guess there's no use lingering here any longer," he remarked. "I'll
push the wheel and run for home."

He started down the road in the storm and darkness. The highway soon
became a long puddle of mud, through which he splashed, finding it
more and more difficult every minute to push the bicycle in the
thick, sticky clay.

Above the roar of the wind and the swishing of the rain he heard
another sound. It was a steady "puff-puff," and then the darkness
was cut by a glare of light.

"An automobile," said Tom aloud. "Guess I'd better get out of the
way."

He turned to one side, but the auto, instead of passing him when it
got to the place where he was, made a sudden stop.

"Want a ride?" asked the chauffeur, peering out from the side
curtains which somewhat protected him from the storm. Tom saw that
the car was a large, touring one. "Can I give you a lift?" went on
the driver.

"Well, I've got my bicycle with me," explained the young inventor.
"My chain's broken, and I've got a mile to go."

"Jump up in back," invited the man. "Leave your wheel here; I guess
it will be safe."

"Oh, I couldn't do that," said Tom. "I don't mind walking. I'm wet
through now, and I can't get much wetter. I'm much obliged, though."

"Well, I'm sorry, but I can hardly take you and the bicycle, too,"
continued the chauffeur.

"Certainly not," added a voice from the tonneau of the car. "We
can't have a muddy bicycle in here. Who is that person, Simpson?"

"It's a young man," answered the driver.

"Is he acquainted around here?" went on the voice from the rear of
the car. "Ask him if he is acquainted around here, Simpson."

Tom was wondering where he had heard that voice before. He had a
vague notion that it was familiar.

"Are you acquainted around here?" obediently asked the man at the
wheel.

"I live here," replied Tom.

"Ask him if he knows any one named Swift?" continued the voice from
the tonneau, and the driver started to repeat it.

"I heard him," interrupted Tom. "Yes, I know a Mr. Swift;" but Tom,
with a sudden resolve, and one he could hardly explain, decided
that, for the present, he would not betray his own identity.

"Ask him if Mr. Swift is an inventor." Once more the unseen person
spoke in the voice Tom was trying vainly to recall.

"Yes, he is an inventor," was the youth's answer.

"Do you know much about him? What are his habits? Does he live near
his workshops? Does he keep many servants? Does he--"

The unseen questioner suddenly parted the side curtains and peered
out at Tom, who stood in the muddy road, close to the automobile. At
that moment there came a bright flash of lightning, illuminating not
only Tom's face, but that of his questioner as well. And at the
sight Tom started, no less than did the man. For Tom had recognized
him as one of the three mysterious persons in the restaurant, and as
for the man, he had also recognized Tom.

"Ah--er--um--is--Why, it's you, isn't it?" cried the questioner, and
he thrust his head farther out from between the curtains. "My, what a
storm!" he exclaimed as the rain increased. "So you know Mr. Swift,
eh? I saw you to-day in Mansburg, I think. I have a good memory for
faces. Do you work for Mr. Swift? If you do I may be able to--"

"I'm Tom Swift, son of Mr. Barton Swift," said Tom as quietly as he
could.

"Tom Swift! His son!" cried the man, and he seemed much agitated.
"Why, I thought--that is, Morse said--Simpson, hurry back to
Mansburg!" and with that, taking no more notice of Tom, the man in
the auto hastily drew the curtains together.

The chauffeur threw in the gears and swung the ponderous machine to
one side. The road was wide, and he made the turn skilfully. A
moment later the car was speeding back the way it had come, leaving
Tom standing on the highway, alone in the mud and darkness, with the
rain pouring down in torrents.




CHAPTER VII.

OFF ON A SPIN


Tom's first impulse was to run after the automobile, the red tail-light
of which glowed through the blackness like a ruby eye. Then he
realized that it was going from him at such a swift pace that it
would be impossible to get near it, even if his bicycle was in
working order.

"But if I had my motor-cycle I'd catch up to them," he murmured. "As
it is, I must hurry home and tell dad. This is another link in the
queer chain that seems to be winding around us. I wonder who that
man was, and what he wanted by asking so many personal questions
about dad?"

Trundling his wheel before him, with the chain dangling from the
handle-bar, Tom splashed on through the mud and rain. It was a
lonesome, weary walk, tired as he was with the happenings of the
day, and the young inventor breathed a sigh of thankfulness as the
lights of his home shone out in the mist of the storm. As he tramped
up the steps of the side porch, his wheel bumping along ahead of
him, a door was thrown open.

"Why, it's Tom!" exclaimed Mrs. Baggert. "Whatever happened to you?"
and she hurried forward with kindly solicitude, for the housekeeper
was almost a second mother to the youth.

"Chain broke," answered the lad laconically. "Where's dad?"

"Out in the shop, working at his latest invention, I expect. But are
you hurt?"

"Oh, no. I fell easily. The mud was like a feather-bed, you know,
except that it isn't so good for the clothes," and the young
inventor looked down at his splashed and bedraggled garments.

Mr. Swift was very much surprised when Tom told him of the happening
on the road, and related the conversation and the subsequent alarm
of the man on learning Tom's identity.

"Who do you suppose he could have been?" asked Tom, when he had
finished.

"I am pretty certain he was one of that crowd of financiers of whom
Anson Morse seems to be a representative," said Mr. Swift. "Are you
sure the man was one of those you saw in the restaurant?"

"Positive. I had a good look at him both times. Do you think he
imagined he could come here and get possession of some of your
secrets?"

"I hardly know what to think, Tom. But we will take every
precaution. We will set the burglar alarm wires, which I have
neglected for some time, as I fancied everything would be secure
here. Then I will take my plans and the model of the turbine motor
into the house. I'll run no chances to-night."

Mr. Swift, who was adjusting some of the new bolts that Tom had
brought home that day; began to gather up his tools and material.

"I'll help you, dad," said Tom, and he began connecting the burglar
alarm wires, there being an elaborate system of them about the
house, shops and grounds.

Neither Tom nor his father slept well that night. Several times one
or the other of them arose, thinking they heard unusual noises, but
it was only some disturbance caused by the storm, and morning
arrived without anything unusual having taken place. The rain still
continued, and Tom, looking from his window and seeing the downpour,
remarked:

"I'm glad of it!"

"Why?" asked his father, who was in the next room.

"Because I'll have a good excuse for staying in and working on my
motor-cycle."

"But you must do some studying," declared Mr. Swift. "I will hear
you in mathematics right after breakfast."

"All right, dad. I guess you'll find I have my lessons."

Tom had graduated with honors from a local academy, and when it came
to a question of going further in his studies, he had elected to
continue with his father for a tutor, instead of going to college.
Mr. Swift was a very learned man, and this arrangement was
satisfactory to him, as it allowed Tom more time at home, so he
could aid his father on the inventive work and also plan things for
himself. Tom showed a taste for mechanics, and his father wisely
decided that such training as his son needed could be given at home
to better advantage than in a school or college.

Lessons over, Tom hurried to his own particular shop, and began
taking apart the damaged motor-cycle.

"First I'll straighten the handle-bars, and then I'll fix the motor
and transmission," he decided. "The front wheel I can buy in town,
as this one would hardly pay for repairing." Tom was soon busy with
wrenches, hammers, pliers and screw-driver. He was in his element,
and was whistling over his task. The motor he found in good
condition, but it was not such an easy task as he had hoped to
change the transmission. He had finally to appeal to his father, in
order to get the right proportion between the back and front gears,
for the motor-cycle was operated by a sprocket chain, instead of a
belt drive, as is the case with some.

Mr. Swift showed Tom how to figure out the number of teeth needed on
each sprocket, in order to get an increase of speed, and as there
was a sprocket wheel from a disused piece of machinery available,
Tom took that. He soon had it in place, and then tried the motor. To
his delight the number of revolutions of the rear wheel were
increased about fifteen per cent.

"I guess I'll make some speed," he announced to his father.

"But it will take more gasolene to run the motor; don't forget that.
You know the great principle of mechanics--that you can't get out of
a machine any more than you put into it, nor quite as much, as a
matter of fact, for considerable is lost through friction."

"Well, then, I'll enlarge the gasolene tank," declared Tom. "I want
to go fast when I'm going."

He reassembled the machine, and after several hours of work had it
in shape to run, except that a front wheel was lacking.

"I think I'll go to town and get one," he remarked. "The rain isn't
quite so hard now."

In spite of his father's mild objections Tom went, using his
bicycle, the chain of which he had quickly repaired. He found just
the front wheel needed, and that night his motor-cycle was ready to
run. But it was too dark to try it then, especially as he had no
good lantern, the one on the cycle having been smashed, and his own
bicycle light not being powerful enough. So he had to postpone his
trial trip until the next day.

He was up early the following morning, and went out for a spin
before breakfast. He came back, with flushed cheeks and bright eyes,
just as Mr. Swift and Mrs. Baggert were sitting down to the table.

"To Reedville and back," announced Tom proudly.

"What, a round trip of thirty miles!" exclaimed Mr. Swift.

"That's what!" declared his son. "I went like a greased pig most of
the way. I had to slow up going through Mansburg, but the rest of at
time I let it out for all it was worth."

"You must be careful," cautioned his father. "You are not an expert
yet."

"No, I realize that. Several times, when I wanted to slow up, I
began to back-pedal, forgetting that I wasn't on my bicycle. Then I
thought to shut off the power and put on the brake. But it's
glorious fun. I'm going out again as soon as I have something to
eat. That is, unless you want me to help you, dad."

"No, not this morning. Learn to ride the motor-cycle. It may come in
handy."

Neither Tom nor his father realized what an important part the
machine was soon to play in their lives.

Tom went out for another spin after breakfast, and in a different
direction. He wanted to see what the machine would do on a hill, and
there was a long, steep one about five miles from home. The roads
were in fine shape after the rain, and he speeded up the incline at
a rapid rate.

"It certainly does eat up the road," the lad murmured. "I have
improved this machine considerably. Wish I could take out a patent
on it."

Reaching the crest of the slope, he started down the incline. He
turned off part of the power, and was gliding along joyously, when
from a cross-road he suddenly saw turn into the main highway a mule,
drawing a ramshackle wagon, loaded with fence posts. Beside the
animal walked an old colored man.

"I hope he gets out of the way in time," thought Tom. "He's moving
as slow as molasses, and I'm going a bit faster than I like. Guess
I'll shut off and put on the brakes."

The mule and wagon were now squarely across the road. Tom was coming
nearer and nearer. He turned the handle-grip, controlling the supply
of gasolene, and to his horror he found that it was stuck. He could
not stop the motor-cycle!

"Look out! Look out!" cried Tom to the negro. "Get out of the way! I
can't stop! Let me pass you!"

The darky looked up. He saw the approaching machine, and he seemed
to lose possession of his senses.

"Whoa, Boomerang!" cried the negro. "Whoa! Suffin's gwine t'
happen!"

"That's what!" muttered Tom desperately, as he saw that there was
not room for him to pass without going into the ditch, a proceeding
that would mean an upset. "Pull out of the way!" he yelled again.

But either the driver could not understand, or did not appreciate
the necessity. The mule stopped and reared up. The colored man
hurried to the head of the animal to quiet it.

"Whoa, Boomerang! Jest yo' stand still!" he said.

Tom, with a great effort, managed to twist the grip and finally shut
off the gasolene. But it was too late. He struck the darky with the
front wheel. Fortunately the youth had managed to somewhat reduce
his speed by a quick application of the brake, or the result might
have been serious. As it was, the colored man was gently lifted away
from the mule's head and tossed into the long grass in the ditch.
Tom, by a great effort, succeeded in maintaining his seat in the
saddle, and then, bringing the machine to a stop, he leaped off and
turned back.

The colored man was sitting up, looking dazed.

"Whoa, Boomerang!" he murmured. "Suffin's happened!"

But the mule, who had quieted down, only waggled his ears lazily,
and Tom, ready to laugh, now that he saw he had not committed
manslaughter, hurried to where the colored man was sitting.




CHAPTER VIII.

SUSPICIOUS ACTIONS


"Are you hurt?" asked Tom as he leaned his motor-cycle against the
fence and stood beside the negro.

"Hurt?" repeated the darky. "I'se killed, dat's what I is! I ain't
got a whole bone in mah body! Good landy, but I suttinly am in a
awful state! Would yo' mind tellin' me if dat ar' mule am still
alive?"

"Of course he is," answered Tom. "He isn't hurt a bit. But why can't
you turn around and look for yourself?"

"No, sah! No, indeedy, sah!" replied the colored man. "Yo' doan't
catch dis yeah nigger lookin' around!"

"Why not?"

"Why not? 'Cause I'll tell yo' why not. I'm so stiff an' I'm so
nearly broke t' pieces, dat if I turn mah head around it suah will
twist offen mah body. No, sah! No, indeedy, sah, I ain't gwine t'
turn 'round. But am yo' suah dat mah mule Boomerang ain't hurted?"

"No, he's not hurt a bit, and I'm sure you are not. I didn't strike
you hard, for I had almost stopped my machine. Try to get up. I'm
positive you'll find yourself all right. I'm sorry it happened."

"Oh, dat's all right. Doan't mind me," went on the colored man. "It
was mah fault fer gittin in de road. But dat mule Boomerang am
suttinly de most outrageous quadruped dat ever circumlocuted."

"Why do you call him Boomerang?" asked Tom, wondering if the negro
really was hurt.

"What fo' I call him Boomerang? Did yo' eber see dem Australian
black mans what go around wid a circus t'row dem crooked sticks dey
calls boomerangs?"

"Yes, I've seen them."

"Well, Boomerang, mah mule, am jest laik dat. He's crooked, t' begin
wid, an' anudder t'ing, yo' can't never tell when yo' start him whar
he's gwine t' land up. Dat's why I calls him Boomerang."

"I see. It's a very proper name. But why don't you try to get up?"

"Does yo' t'ink I can?"

"Sure. Try it. By the way, what's your name?"

"My name? Why I was christened Eradicate Andrew Jackson Abraham
Lincoln Sampson, but folks most ginnerally calls me Eradicate
Sampson, an' some doan't eben go to dat length. Dey jest calls me
Rad, fo' short."

"Eradicate," mused Tom. "That's a queer name, too. Why were you
called that?"

"Well, yo' see I eradicates de dirt. I'm a cleaner an' a whitewasher
by profession, an' somebody gib me dat name. Dey said it were fitten
an' proper, an' I kept it eber sence. Yais, sah, I'se Eradicate
Sampson, at yo' service. Yo' ain't got no chicken coops yo' wants
cleaned out, has yo'? Or any stables or fences t' whitewash? I
guarantees satisfaction."

"Well, I might find some work for you to do," replied the young
inventor, thinking this would be as good a means as any of placating
the darky. "But come, now, try and see if you can't stand. I don't
believe I broke any of your legs."

"I guess not. I feels better now. Where am dat work yo' was speakin'
ob?" and Eradicate Sampson, now that there seemed to be a prospect
of earning money, rose quickly and easily.

"Why, you're all right!" exclaimed Tom, glad to find that the
accident had had no serious consequences.

"Yais, sah, I guess I be. Whar did yo' say, yo' had some
whitewashin' t' do?"

"No place in particular, but there is always something that needs
doing at our house. If you call I'll give you a job."

"Yais, sah, I'll be sure to call," and Eradicate walked back to
where Boomerang was patiently waiting.

Tom told the colored man how to find the Swift home, and was
debating with himself whether he ought not to offer Eradicate some
money as compensation for knocking him into the air, when he noticed
that the negro was tying one wheel of his wagon fast to the body of
the vehicle with a rope.

"What are you doing that for?" asked Tom.

"Got to, t' git downhill wid dis load ob fence posts," was the
answer. "Ef I didn't it would be right on to de heels ob Boomerang,
an' wheneber he feels anyt'ing on his heels he does act wuss dan a
circus mule."

"But why don't you use your brake? I see you have one on the wagon.
Use the brake to hold back going downhill."

"'Scuse me, Mistah Swift, 'scuse me!" exclaimed Eradicate quickly.
"But yo' doan't know dat brake. It's wuss dan none at all. It doan't
work, fer a fact. No, indeedy, sah. I'se got to rope de wheel."

Tom was interested at once. He made an examination of the brake, and
soon saw why it would not hold the wheels. The foot lever was not
properly connected with the brake bar. It was a simple matter to
adjust it by changing a single bolt, and this Tom did with tools he
took from the bag on his motor-cycle. The colored man looked on in
open-mouthed amazement, and even Boomerang peered lazily around, as
if taking an interest in the proceedings.

"There," said Tom at length, as he tightened the nut. "That brake
will work now, and hold the wagon on any hill. You won't need to
rope the wheel. You didn't have the right leverage on it."

"'Scuse me, Mistah Swift, but what's dat yo' said?" and Eradicate
leaned forward to listen deferentially.

"I said you didn't have the right leverage."

"No, sah, Mistah Swift, 'scuse me, but yo' made a slight mistake. I
ain't never had no liverage on dis yeah wagon. It ain't dat kind ob
a wagon. I onct drove a livery rig, but dat were some years ago. I
ain't worked fo' de livery stable in some time now. Dat's why I know
dere ain't no livery on dis wagon. Yo'll 'scuse me, but yo' am
slightly mistaken."

"All right," rejoined Tom with a laugh, not thinking it worth while
to explain what he meant by the lever force of the brake rod. "Let
it go at that. Livery or no livery, your brake will work now. I
guess you're all right. Now don't forget to come around and do some
whitewashing," and seeing that the colored man was able to mount to
the seat and start off Boomerang, who seemed to have deep-rooted
objections about moving, Tom wheeled his motor-cycle back to the
road.

Eradicate Sampson drove his wagon a short distance and then suddenly
applied the brake. It stopped short, and the mule looked around as
if surprised.

"It suah do work, Mistah Swift!" called the darky to Tom, who was
waiting the result of his little repair job. "It suah do work!"

"I'm glad of it."

"Mah golly! But yo' am suttinly a conjure-man when it comes t'
fixin' wagons! Did yo' eber work fer a blacksmith?"

"No, not exactly. Well, good-by, Eradicate. I'll look for you some
day next week."

With that Tom leaped on his machine and speeded off ahead of the
colored man and his rig. As he passed the load of fence posts the
youth heard Eradicate remark in awestricken tones:

"Mah golly! He suttinly go laik de wind! An' t' t'ink dat I were hit
by dat monstrousness machine, an' not hurted! Mah golly! T'ings am
suttinly happenin'! G'lang, Boomerang!"

"This machine has more possibilities in it than I suspected," mused
Tom. "But one thing I've got to change, and that is the gasolene and
spark controls. I don't like them the way they are. I want a better
leverage, just as Eradicate needed on his wagon. I'll fix them, too,
when I get home."

He rode for several hours, until he thought it was about dinner
time, and then, heading the machine toward home, he put on all the
speed possible, soon arriving where his father was at work in the
shop.

"Well, how goes it?" asked Mr. Swift with a smile as he looked at
the flushed face of his son.

"Fine, dad! I scooted along in great shape. Had an adventure, too."

"You didn't meet any more of those men, did you? The men who are
trying to get my invention?" asked Mr. Swift apprehensively.

"No, indeed, dad. I simply had a little run-in with a chap named
Eradicate Andrew Jackson Abraham Lincoln Sampson, otherwise known as
Rad Sampson, and I engaged him to do some whitewashing for us. We do
need some white washing done, don't we, dad?"

"What's that?" asked Mr. Swift, thinking his son was joking.

Then Tom told of the happening.

"Yes, I think I can find some work for Eradicate to do," went on Mr.
Swift. "There is some dirt in the boiler shop that needs
eradicating, and I think he can do it. But dinner has been waiting
some time. We'll go in now, or Mrs. Baggert will be out after us."

Father and son were soon at the table, and Tom was explaining what
he meant to do to improve his motor-cycle. His father offered some
suggestions regarding the placing of the gasolene lever.

"I'd put it here," he said, and with his pencil he began to draw a
diagram on the white table cloth.

"Oh, my goodness me, Mr. Swift!" exclaimed Mrs. Baggert. "Whatever
are you doing?" and she sprang up in some alarm.

"What's the matter? Did I upset my tea?" asked the inventor
innocently.

"No; but you are soiling a clean tablecloth. Pencil-marks are so
hard to get out. Take a piece of paper, please."

"Oh, is that all?" rejoined Mr. Swift with a smile. "Well, Tom, here
is the way I would do that," and substituting the back of an
envelope for the tablecloth, he continued the drawing.

Tom was looking over his father's shoulder interestedly, when Mrs.
Baggert, who was taking off some of the dinner dishes, suddenly
asked:

"Are you expecting a visitor, Mr. Swift?"

"A visitor? No. Why?" asked the inventor quickly.

"Because I just saw a man going in the machine shop," went on the
housekeeper.

"A man! In the machine shop!" exclaimed Tom, rising from his chair.
Mr. Swift also got up, and the two hurried from the house. As they
reached the yard they saw a man emerging from the building where Mr.
Swift was constructing his turbine motor. The man had his back
turned toward them and seemed to be sneaking around, as though
desirous of escaping observation.

"What do you want?" called Mr. Swift.

The man turned quickly. At the sight of Mr. Swift and Tom he made a
jump to one side and got behind a big packing-box.

"That's queer," spoke Tom. "I wonder what he wants?"

"I'll soon see," rejoined Mr. Swift, and he started on a run toward
where the man was hiding. Tom followed his father, and as the two
inventors reached the box the man sprang from behind it and down the
yard to a lane that passed in back of the Swift house. As he ran he
was seen to stuff some papers in his pocket.

"My plans! He's stolen some of my plans!" cried Mr. Swift. "Catch
him, Tom!"

Tom ran after the stranger, whose curious actions had roused their
suspicions, while Mr. Swift entered the motor shop to ascertain
whether anything had been stolen.




CHAPTER IX.

A FRUITLESS PURSUIT


Down through the yard Tom speeded, in and out among the buildings,
looking on every side for a sight of the bold stranger. No one was
to be seen.

"He can't be very far ahead," thought Tom. "I ought to catch him
before he gets to the woods. If he reaches there he has a good
chance of getting away."

There was a little patch of trees just back of the inventor's house,
not much of a woods, perhaps, but that is what they were called.

"I wonder if he was some ordinary tramp, looking for what he could
steal, or if he was one of the gang after dad's invention?" thought
Tom as he sprinted ahead.

By this time the youth was clear of the group of buildings and in
sight of a tall, board fence, which surrounded the Swift estate on
three sides. Here and there, along the barrier, were piled old
packing-cases, so that it would be easy for a fugitive to leap upon
one of them and so get over the fence. Tom thought of this
possibility in a moment.

"I guess he got over ahead of me," the lad exclaimed, and he peered
sharply about. "I'll catch him on the other side!"

At that instant Tom tripped over a plank and went down full length,
making quite a racket. When he picked himself up he was surprised to
see the man he was after dart from inside a big box and start for
the fence, near a point where there were some packing-cases piled
up, making a good approach to the barrier. The fugitive had been
hiding, waiting for a chance to escape, and Tom's fall had alarmed
him.

"Here! Hold on there! Come back!" cried the youth as he recovered
his wind and leaped forward.

But the man did not stay. With a bound he was up on the pile of
boxes, and the next moment he was poised on top of the fence. Before
leaping down on the other side, a jump at which even a practiced
athlete might well hesitate, the fleeing stranger paused and looked
back. Tom gazed at him and recognized the man in an instant. He was
the third of the mysterious trio whom the lad had seen in the
Mansburg restaurant.

"Wait a minute! What do you want sneaking around here?" shouted Tom
as he ran forward. The man returned no answer, and an instant later
disappeared from view on the other side of the fence.

"He jumped down!" thought Tom. "A big leap, too. Well, I've got to
follow. This is a queer proceeding. First one, then the second, and
now the third of those men seem determined to get something here. I
wonder if this one succeeded? I'll soon find out."

The lad was up on the pile of packing-cases and over the fence in
almost record time. He caught a glimpse of the fugitive running
toward the woods. Then the boy leaped down, jarring himself
considerably, and took after the man.

But though Tom was a good runner he was handicapped by the fact that
the man had a start of him, and also by the fact that the stranger
had had a chance to rest while hiding for the second time in the big
box, while Tom had kept on running. So it is no great cause for
wonder that Mr. Swift's son found himself being distanced.

Once, twice he called on the fleeing one to halt, but the man paid
no attention, and did not even turn around. Then the youth wisely
concluded to save his wind for running. He did his best, but was
chagrined to see the man reach the woods ahead of him.

"I've lost him now," thought Tom. "Well, there's no help for it."

Still he did not give up, but kept on through the patch of trees. On
the farther side was Lake Carlopa, a broad and long sheet of water.

"If he doesn't know the lake's there," thought our hero, "he may
keep straight on. The water will be sure to stop him, and I can
catch him. But what will I do with him after I get him? That's
another question. I guess I've got a right to demand to know what he
was doing around our place, though."

But Tom need not have worried on this score. He could hear the
fugitive ahead of him, and marked his progress by the crackling of
the underbrush.

"I'm almost up to him," exulted the young inventor. Then, at the
same moment, he caught sight of the man running, and a glimpse of
the sparkling water of Lake Carlopa. "I've got him! I've got him!"
Tom almost cried aloud in his excitement. "Unless he takes to the
water and swims for it, I've got him!"

But Tom did not reckon on a very simple matter, and that was the
possibility of the man having a boat at hand. For this is just what
happened. Reaching the lake shore the fugitive with a final spurt
managed to put considerable distance between himself and Tom. Drawn
up on the beach was a little motor-boat. In this, after he had
pushed it from shore, the stranger leaped. It was the work of but a
second to set the engine in motion, and as Tom reached the edge of
the woods and started across the narrow strip of sand and gravel
that was between the water and the trees, he saw the man steering
his craft toward the middle of the lake.

"Well--I'll--be--jiggered!" exclaimed the youth. "Who would have
thought he'd have a motor-boat waiting for him? He planned this
well."

There was nothing to do but turn back. Tom had a small rowboat and a
sailing skiff on the lake, but his boathouse was some distance away,
and even if he could get one of his craft out, the motor-boat would
soon distance it.

"He's gone!" thought the searcher regretfully.

The man in the motor-boat did not look back. He sat in the bow,
steering the little craft right across the broadest part of Lake
Carlopa.

"I wonder where he came from, and where he's going?" mused Tom.
"That's a boat I never saw on this lake before. It must be a new
one. Well, there's no help for it, I've got to go back and tell dad
I couldn't catch him." And with a last look at the fugitive, who,
with his boat, was becoming smaller and smaller every minute, Tom
turned and retraced his steps.




CHAPTER X.

OFF TO ALBANY


"Did you catch him, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift eagerly when his son
returned, but the inventor needed but a glance at the lad's
despondent face to have his question answered without words, "Never
mind," he added, "there's not much harm done, fortunately."

"Did he get anything? Any of your plans or models, dad?"

"No; not as far as I can discover. My papers in the shop were not
disturbed, but it looked as if the turbine model had been moved. The
only thing missing seems to be a sheet of unimportant calculations.
Luckily I had my most valuable drawings in the safe in the house."

"Yet that man seemed to be putting papers in his pocket, dad. Maybe
he made copies of some of your drawings."

"That's possible, Tom, and I admit it worries me. I can't imagine
who that man is, unless--"

"Why, he's one of the three men I saw in Mansburg in the
restaurant," said Tom eagerly. "Two of them tried to get information
here, and now the third one comes. He got away in a motor-boat," and
Tom told how the fugitive escaped.

Mr. Swift looked worried. It was not the first time attempts had
been made to steal his inventions, but on this occasion a desperate
and well-organized plan appeared to be on foot.

"What do you think they are up to, dad?" asked Tom.

"I think they are trying to get hold of my turbine motor, Tom. You
know I told you that the financiers were disappointed in the turbine
motor they bought of another inventor. It does not work. To get back
the money they spent in building an expensive plant they must have a
motor that is successful. Hence their efforts to get control of
mine. I don't know whether I told you or not, but some time ago I
refused a very good offer for certain rights in my invention. I knew
it was worth more. The offer came through Smeak & Katch, the
lawyers, and when I refused it they seemed much disappointed. I
think now that this same firm, and the financiers who have employed
them, are trying by all the means in their power to get possession
of my ideas, if not the invention and model itself."

"What can you do, dad?"

"Well, I must think. I certainly must take some means to protect
myself. I have had trouble before, but never any like this. I did
not think those men would be so unscrupulous."

"Do you know their names?"

"No, only from that telegram we found; the one which the first
stranger dropped. One of them must be Anson Morse. Who the others
are I don't know. But now I must make some plans to foil these
sharpers. I may have to call on you for help, Tom."

"And I'll be ready any time you call on me, dad," responded Tom,
drawing himself up. "Can I do anything for you right away?"

"No; I must think out a plan."

"Then I am going to change my motor-cycle a bit. I'll put some more
improvements on it."

"And I will write some letters to my lawyers in Washington and ask
their advice." It took Tom the remainder of that day, and part of
the next, to arrange the gasolene and spark control of his machine
to his satisfaction. He had to make two small levers and some
connecting rods. This he did in his own particular machine shop,
which was fitted up with a lathe and other apparatus. The lathe was
run by power coming from a small engine, which was operated by an
engineer, an elderly man to whom Mr. Swift had given employment for
many years. He was Garret Jackson, and he kept so close to his
engine and boiler-room that he was seldom seen outside of it except
when the day's work was done.

One afternoon, a few days after the unsuccessful chase after the
fugitive had taken place, Tom went out for a spin on his
motor-cycle. He found that the machine worked much better, and was
easier to control. He rode about fifteen miles away from home, and
then returned. As he entered the yard he saw, standing on the drive, a
ramshackle old wagon, drawn by a big mule, which seemed, at the time
Tom observed him, to be asleep.

"I'll wager that's Boomerang," said Tom aloud, and the mule opened
its eyes, wiggled its ears and started forward.

"Whoa dar, Boomerang!" exclaimed a voice, and Eradicate Sampson
hurried around the corner of the house. "Dat's jest lake yo'," went
on the colored man. "Movin' when yo' ain't wanted to." Then, as he
caught sight of Tom, he exclaimed, "Why, if it ain't young Mistah
Swift! Good lordy! But dat livery brake yo' done fixed on mah wagon
suttinly am fine. Ah kin go down de steepest hill widout ropin' de
wheel."

"Glad of it," replied Tom. "Did you come to do some work?"

"Yais, sah, I done did. I found I had some time t' spah, an' thinks
I dere might be some whitewashin' I could do. Yo' see, I lib only
'bout two mile from heah."

"Well, I guess you can do a few jobs," said Tom. "Wait here."

He hunted up his father, and obtained permission to set Eradicate at
work cleaning out a chicken house and whitewashing it. The darky was
soon at work. A little later Tom passing saw him putting the
whitewash on thick. Eradicate stopped at the sight of Tom, and made
some curious motions.

"What's the matter, Rad?" asked the young inventor.

"Why, de whitewash done persist in runnin' down de bresh handle an'
inter mah sleeve. I'm soakin' wet from it now, an' I has t' stop
ebery onct in a while 'case mah sleeve gits full."

Tom saw what the trouble was. The white fluid did run down the long
brush handle in a small rivulet. Tom had once seen a little rubber
device on a window-cleaning brush that worked well, and he decided
to try it for Eradicate.

"Wait a minute," Tom advised. "I think I can stop that for you."

The colored man was very willing to take a rest, but it did not last
long, for Tom was soon back at the chicken coop. He had a small
rubber disk, with a hole in the center, the size of the brush
handle. Slipping the disk over the wood, he pushed it about half way
along, and then, handing the brush back to the negro, told him to
try it that way.

"Did yo' done put a charm on mah bresh?" asked Eradicate somewhat
doubtfully.

"Yes, a sort of hoodoo charm. Try it now."

The darky dipped his brush in the pail of whitewash, and then began
to spread the disinfectant on the sides of the coop near the top.
The surplus fluid started to run down the handle, but, meeting the
piece of rubber, came no farther, and dripped off on the ground. It
did not run down the sleeve of Eradicate.

"Well, I 'clar t' goodness! That suttinly am a mighty fine charm!"
cried the colored man. "Yo' suah am a pert gen'men, all right. Now I
kin work widout stoppin' t' empty mah sleeve ob lime juice ebery
minute. I'se suttinly obliged t' yo'."

"You're welcome, I'm sure," replied Tom. "I think some day I'll
invent a machine for whitewashing, and then--"

"Doan't do dat! Doan't do dat!" begged Eradicate earnestly. "Dis,
an' makin' dirt disappear, am de only perfessions I got. Doan't go
'ventin' no machine, Mistah Swift."

"All right. I'll wait until you get rich."

"Ha, ha! Den yo' gwine t' wait a pow'ful long time," chuckled
Eradicate as he went on with his whitewashing.

Tom went into the house. He found his father busy with some papers
at his desk.

"Ah, it's you, is it, Tom?" asked the inventor, looking up. "I was
just wishing you would come in."

"What for, dad?"

"Well, I have quite an important mission for you. I want you to go
on a journey."

"A journey? Where?"

"To Albany. You see, I've been thinking over matters, and I have
been in correspondence with my lawyers in regard to my turbine
motor. I must take measures to protect myself. You know I have not
yet taken out a complete patent on the machine. I have not done so
because I did not want to put my model on exhibition in Washington.
I was afraid some of those unscrupulous men would take advantage of
me. Another point was that I had not perfected a certain device that
goes on the motor. That objection is now removed, and I am ready to
send my model to Washington, and take out the complete patent."

"But I thought you said you wanted me to go to Albany."

"So I do. I will explain. I have just had a letter from Reid &
Crawford, my Washington attorneys. Mr. Crawford, the junior member
of the firm, will be in Albany this week on some law business. He
agrees to receive my model and some papers there, and take them back
to Washington with him. In this way they will be well protected. You
see, I have to be on my guard, and if I send the model to Albany,
instead of the national capital, I may throw the plotters off the
track, for I feel that they are watching every move I make. As soon
as you or I should start for Washington they would be on our trail.
But you can go to Albany unsuspected. Mr. Crawford will wait for you
there. I want you to start day after to-morrow."

"All right, dad. I can start now, if you say so."

"No, there is no special need for haste. I have some matters to
arrange. You might go to the station and inquire about trains to the
State capital."

"Am I going by train?"

"Certainly. How else could you go?"

There was a look of excitement in Tom's eyes. He had a sudden idea.

"Dad," he exclaimed, "why couldn't I go on my motor-cycle?"

"Your motor-cycle?"

"Yes. I could easily make the trip on it in one day. The roads are
good, and I would enjoy it. I can carry the model back of me on the
saddle. It is not very large."

"Well," said Mr. Swift slowly, for the idea was a new one to him, "I
suppose that part would be all right. But you have not had much
experience riding a motor-cycle. Besides, you don't know the roads."

"I can inquire. Will you let me go, dad?"

Mr. Swift appeared to hesitate.

"It will be fine!" went on Tom. "I would enjoy the trip, and there's
another thing. If we want to keep this matter secret the best plan
would be to let me go on my machine. If those men are on the watch,
they will not think that I have the model. They will think I'm just
going for a pleasure jaunt."

"There's something in that," admitted Mr. Swift, and Tom, seeing
that his father was favorably inclined, renewed his arguments, until
the inventor finally agreed.

"It will be a great trip!" exclaimed Tom. "I'll go all over my machine
now, to see that it's in good shape. You get your papers and model
ready, dad, and I'll take them to Albany for you. The motor-cycle will
come in handy."

But had Tom only known the dangers ahead of him, and the risks he
was to run, he would not have whistled so light heartedly as he went
over every nut and bolt on his machine.

Two days later, the valuable model, having been made into a
convenient package, and wrapped in water-proof paper, was fastened
back of the saddle on the motor-cycle. Tom carefully pinned in an
inside pocket the papers which were to be handed to Mr. Crawford. He
was to meet the lawyer at a hotel in Albany.

"Now take care of yourself, Tom," cautioned his father as he bade
him good-by. "Don't try to make speed, as there is no special rush.
And, above all, don't lose anything."

"I'll not, dad," and with a wave of his hand to Mr. Swift and the
housekeeper, who stood in the door to see him off, Tom jumped into
the saddle, started the machine, and then, after sufficient momentum
had been attained, he turned on the gasolene and set the spark
lever. With rattles and bangs, which were quickly subdued by the
muffler, the machine gathered speed. Tom was off for Albany.




CHAPTER XI.

A VINDICTIVE TRAMP


Though Tom's father had told him there was no necessity for any
great speed, the young inventor could not resist the opportunity for
pushing his machine to the limit. The road was a level one and in
good condition, so the motor-cycle fairly flew along. The day was
pleasant, a warm sun shining overhead, and it was evident that early
summer was crowding spring rather closely.

"This is glorious!" exclaimed Tom aloud as he spun along. "I'm glad I
persuaded dad to let me take this trip. It was a great idea. Wish Ned
Newton was along, though. He'd be company for me, but, as Ned would
say, there are two good reasons why he can't come. One is he has to
work in the bank, and the other is that he has no motor-cycle."

Tom swept past house after house along the road, heading in the
opposite direction from that in which lay the town of Shopton and
the city of Mansburg. For several miles Tom's route would lie
through a country district. The first large town he would reach
would be Centreford. He planned to get lunch there, and he had
brought a few sandwiches with him to eat along the road in case he
became hungry before he reached the place.

"I hope the package containing the model doesn't jar off," mused the
lad as he reached behind to make sure that the precious bundle was
safe. "Dad would be in a bad way if that should disappear. And the
papers, too." He put his hand to his inner pocket to feel that they
were secure. Coming to a little down-grade, Tom shut off some of the
power, the new levers he had arranged to control the gasolene and
spark working well.

"I think I'll take the old wood road and pass through Pompville,"
Tom decided, after covering another mile or two. He was approaching
a division in the highway. "It's a bit sandy," he went on, "and the
going will be heavy, but it will be a good chance to test my
machine. Besides, I'll save five miles, and, while I don't have to
hurry, I may need time on the other end. I'd rather arrive in Albany
a little before dusk than after dark. I can deliver the model and
papers and have a good night's sleep before starting back. So the
old wood road it will be."

The wood road, as Tom called it, was a seldom used highway, which,
originally, was laid out for just what the name indicated, to bring
wood from the forest. With the disappearance of most of the trees
the road became more used for ordinary traffic between the towns of
Pompville and Edgefield. But when the State built a new highway
connecting these two places the old road fell into disuse, though it
was several miles shorter than the new turnpike.

He turned from the main thoroughfare, and was soon spinning along
the sandy stretch, which was shaded with trees that in some places
met overhead, forming a leafy arch. It was cool and pleasant, and
Tom liked it.

"It isn't as bad as I thought," he remarked. "The sand is pretty
thick, but this machine of mine appears to be able to crawl through
it."

Indeed, the motor-cycle was doing remarkably well, but Tom found
that he had to turn on full power, for the big rubber wheels went
deep into the soft soil. Along Tom rode, picking out the firmest
places in the road. He was so intent on this that he did not pay
much attention to what was immediately ahead of him, knowing that he
was not very likely to meet other vehicles or pedestrians. He was
considerably startled therefore when, as he went around a turn in
the highway where the bushes grew thick, right down to the edge of
the road, to see a figure emerge from the underbrush and start
across the path. So quickly did the man appear that Tom was almost
upon him in an instant, and even though the young inventor shut off
the power and applied the brake, the front wheel hit the man and
knocked him down.

"What's the matter with you? What are you trying to do--kill me? Why
don't you ring a bell or blow a horn when you're coming?" The man had
sprung up from the soft sand where the wheel from the motor-cycle had
sent him and faced Tom angrily. Then the rider, who had quickly
dismounted, saw that his victim was a ragged tramp.

"I'm sorry," began Tom. "You came out of the bushes so quickly that
I didn't have a chance to warn you. Did I hurt you much?"

"Well, youse might have. 'Tain't your fault dat youse didn't," and
the tramp began to brush the dirt from his ragged coat. Tom was
instantly struck by a curious fact. The tramp in his second remarks
used language more in keeping with his character, whereas, in his
first surprise and anger, he had talked much as any other person
would. "Youse fellers ain't got no right t' ride dem machines like
lightnin' along de roads," the ragged chap went on, and he still
clung to the use of words and expressions current among his
fraternity. Tom wondered at it, and then, ascribing the use of the
better language to the fright caused by being hit by the machine,
the lad thought no more about it at the time. There was occasion,
however, when he attached more meaning to it.

"I'm very sorry," went on Tom. "I'm sure I didn't mean to. You see,
I was going quite slowly, and--"

"You call dat slow, when youse hit me an' knocked me down?" demanded
the tramp. "I'd oughter have youse arrested, dat's what, an' I would
if dere was a cop handy."

"I wasn't going at all fast," said Tom, a little nettled that his
conciliatory words should be so rudely received. "If I had been
going full speed I'd have knocked you fifty feet."

"It's a good thing. Cracky, den I'm glad dat youse wasn't goin' like
dat," and the tramp seemed somewhat confused. This time Tom looked
at him more closely, for the change in his language had been very
plain. The fellow seemed uneasy, and turned his face away. As he did
so Tom caught a glimpse of what he was sure was a false beard. It
was altogether too well-kept a beard to be a natural one for such a
dirty tramp as this one appeared to be.

"That fellow's disguised!" Tom thought. "He's playing a part. I
wonder if I'd better take chances and spring it on him that I'm on
to his game?"

Then the ragged man spoke again:

"I s'pose it was part my fault, cully. I didn't know dat any guy was
comin' along on one of dem buzz-machines, or I'd been more careful.
I don't s'pose youse meant to upset me?" and he looked at Tom more
boldly. This time his words seemed so natural, and his beard, now
that Tom took a second look at it, so much a part of himself, that
the young inventor wondered if he could have been mistaken in his
first surmise.

"Perhaps he was once a gentleman, and has turned tramp because of
hard luck," thought Tom. "That would account for him using good
language at times. Guess I'd better keep still." Then to the tramp
he said: "I'm sure I didn't mean to hit you. I admit I wasn't
looking where I was going, but I never expected to meet any one on
this road. I certainly didn't expect to see a--"

He paused in some confusion. He was about to use the term "tramp,"
and he hesitated, not knowing how it would be received by his
victim.

"Oh, dat's all right, cully. Call me a tramp--I know dat's what
youse was goin' t' say. I'm used t' it. I've been a hobo so many
years now dat I don't mind. De time was when I was a decent chap,
though. But I'm a tramp now. Say, youse couldn't lend me a quarter,
could youse?"

He approached closer to Tom, and looked quickly up and down the
road. The highway was deserted, nor was there any likelihood that
any one would come along. Tom was somewhat apprehensive, for the
tramp was a burly specimen. The young inventor, however, was not so
much alarmed at the prospect of a personal encounter, as that he
feared he might be robbed, not only of his money, but the valuable
papers and model he carried. Even if the tramp was content with
taking his money, it would mean that Tom would have to go back home
for more, and so postpone his trip.

So it was with no little alarm that he watched the ragged man coming
nearer to him. Then a bright idea came into Tom's head. He quickly
shifted his position so that he brought the heavy motor-cycle
between the man and himself. He resolved, if the tramp showed a
disposition to attack him, to push the machine over on him, and this
would give Tom a chance to attack the thief to better advantage.
However, the "hobo" showed no evidence of wanting to resort to
highwayman methods. He paused a short distance from the machine, and
said admiringly:

"Dat's a pretty shebang youse has."

"Yes, it's very fair," admitted Tom, who was not yet breathing
easily.

"Kin youse go far on it?"

"Two hundred miles a day, easily."

"Fer cats' sake! An' I can't make dat ridin' on de blind baggage;
but dat's 'cause I gits put off so much. But say, is youse goin' to
let me have dat quarter? I need it, honest I do. I ain't had nuttin'
t' eat in two days."

The man's tone was whining. Surely he seemed like a genuine tramp,
and Tom felt a little sorry for him. Besides, he felt that he owed
him something for the unceremonious manner in which he had knocked
the fellow down. Tom reached his hand in his pocket for some change,
taking care to keep the machine between himself and the tramp.

"Are youse goin' far on dat rig-a-ma-jig?" went on the man as he
looked carefully over the motor-cycle.

"To Albany," answered Tom, and the moment the words were out of his
mouth he wished he could recall them. All his suspicions regarding
the tramp came back to him. But the ragged chap appeared to attach
no significance to them.

"Albany? Dat's in Jersey, ain't it?" he asked.

"No, it's in New York," replied Tom, and then, to change the
subject, he pulled out a half-dollar and handed it to the man. As he
did so Tom noticed that the tramp had tattooed on the little finger
of his left hand a blue ring.

"Dat's de stuff! Youse is a reg'lar millionaire, youse is!"
exclaimed the tramp, and his manner seemed in earnest. "I'll
remember youse, I will. What's your name, anyhow, cully?"

"Tom Swift," replied our hero, and again he wished he had not told.
This time he was sure the tramp started and glanced at him quickly,
but perhaps it was only his imagination.

"Tom Swift," repeated the man musingly, and his tones were different
from the whining ones in which he had asked for money. Then, as if
recollecting the part he was playing, he added: "I s'pose dey calls
youse dat because youse rides so quick on dat machine. But I'm
certainly obliged to youse--Tom Swift, an' I hopes youse gits t'
Albany, in Jersey, in good time."

He turned away, and Tom was beginning to breathe more easily when
the ragged man, with a quick gesture, reached out and grabbed hold
of the motor-cycle. He gave it such a pull that it was nearly torn
from Tom's grasp. The lad was so startled at the sudden exhibition
of vindictiveness an the part of the tramp that he did not know what
to do. Then, before he could recover himself, the tramp darted into
the bushes.

"I guess Happy Harry--dat's me--has spoiled your ride t' Albany!"
the tramp cried. "Maybe next time youse won't run down poor fellers
on de road," and with that, the ragged man, shaking his fist at Tom,
was lost to sight in the underbrush.

"Well, if that isn't a queer end up," mused Tom. "He must be crazy.
I hope I don't meet you again, Happy Harry, or whatever your name
is. Guess I'll get out of this neighborhood."




CHAPTER XII.

THE MEN IN THE AUTO


Tom first made sure that the package containing the model was still
safely in place back of his saddle on the motor-cycle. Finding it
there he next put his hand in his pocket to see that he had the
papers.

"They're all right," spoke Tom aloud. "I didn't know but what that
chap might have worked a pickpocket game on me. I'm glad I didn't
meet him after dark. Well, it's a good thing it's no worse. I wonder
if he tried to get my machine away from me? Don't believe he'd know
how to ride it if he did."

Tom wheeled his motor-cycle to a hard side-path along the old road,
and jumped into the saddle. He worked the pedals preparatory to
turning on the gasolene and spark to set the motor in motion. As he
threw forward the levers, having acquired what he thought was the
necessary momentum, he was surprised that no explosion followed. The
motor seemed "dead."

"That's queer," he thought, and he began to pedal more rapidly. "It
always used to start easily. Maybe it doesn't like this sandy
road."

It was hard work sending the heavy machine along by "leg power," and
once more, when he had acquired what he thought was sufficient
speed, Tom turned on the power. But no explosions followed, and in
some alarm he jumped to the ground.

"Something's wrong," he said aloud. "That tramp must have damaged
the machine when he yanked it so." Tom went quickly over the
different parts. It did not take him long to discover what the
trouble was. One of the wires, leading from the batteries to the
motor, which wire served to carry the current of electricity that
exploded the mixture of air and gasolene, was missing. It had been
broken off close to the battery box and the spark plug.

"That's what Happy Harry did!" exclaimed Tom. "He pulled that wire
off when he yanked my machine. That's what he meant by hoping I'd
get to Albany. That fellow was no tramp. He was disguised, and up to
some game. And he knows something about motor-cycles, too, or he
never would have taken that wire. I'm stalled, now, for I haven't
got another piece. I ought to have brought some. I'll have to push
this machine until I get to town, or else go back home."

The young inventor looked up and down the lonely road, undecided
what to do. To return home meant that he would be delayed in getting
to Albany, for he would lose a day. If he pushed on to Pompville he
might be able to get a bit of wire there.

Tom decided that was his best plan, and plodded on through the thick
sand. He had not gone more than a quarter of a mile, every step
seeming harder than the preceding one, when he heard, from the woods
close at his left hand, a gun fired. He jumped so that he nearly let
the motor-cycle fall over, for a wild idea came into his head that
the tramp had shot at him. With a quickly-beating heart the lad
looked about him.

"I wonder if that was Happy Harry?" he mused.

There was a crackling in the bushes and Tom, wondering what he might
do to protect himself, looked toward the place whence the noise
proceeded. A moment later a hunter stepped into view. The man
carried a gun and wore a canvas suit, a belt about his waist being
filled with cartridges.

"Hello!" he exclaimed pleasantly, Then, seeing a look of alarm on
the lad's face, he went on:

"I hope I didn't shoot in your direction, young man; did I?"

"No--no, sir," replied the youthful inventor, who had hardly
recovered his composure. "I heard your gun, and I imagined--"

"Did you think you had been shot? You must have a very vivid
imagination, for I fired in the air."

"No, I didn't exactly think that," replied Tom, "but I just had an
encounter with an ugly tramp, and I feared he might be using me for
a target."

"Is that so. I hadn't noticed any tramps around here, and I've been
in these woods nearly all day. Did he harm you?"

"No, not me, but my motor-cycle," and the lad explained.

"Pshaw! That's too bad!" exclaimed the hunter. "I wish I could
supply you with a bit of wire, but I haven't any. I'm just walking
about, trying my new gun."

"I shouldn't think you'd find anything to shoot this time of year,"
remarked Tom.

"I don't expect to," answered the hunter, who had introduced himself
as Theodore Duncan. "But I have just purchased a new gun, and I
wanted to try it. I expect to do considerable hunting this fall, and
so I'm getting ready for it."

"Do you live near here?"

"Well, about ten miles away, on the other side of Lake Carlopa, but
I am fond of long walks in the woods. If you ever get to Waterford I
wish you'd come and see me, Mr. Swift. I have heard of your father."

"I will, Mr. Duncan; but if I don't get something to repair my
machine with I'm not likely to get anywhere right away."

"Well, I wish I could help you, but I haven't the least ingenuity
when it comes to machinery. Now if I could help you track down that
tramp--"

"Oh, no, thank you, I'd rather not have anything more to do with
him."

"If I caught sight of him now," resumed the hunter, "I fancy I could
make him halt, and, perhaps, give you back the wire. I'm a pretty
good shot, even if this is a new gun. I've been practicing at
improvised targets all day."

"No; the less I have to do with him, the better I shall like it,"
answered Tom, "though I'm much obliged to you. I'll manage somehow
until I get to Pompville."

He started off again, the hunter disappearing in the woods, whence
the sound of his gun was again heard.

"He's a queer chap," murmured Tom, "but I like him. Perhaps I may
see him when I go to Waterford, if I ever do."

Tom was destined to see the hunter again, at no distant time, and
under strange circumstances. But now the lad's whole attention was
taken up with the difficulty in which he found himself. Vainly
musing on what object the tramp could have had in breaking off the
wire, the young inventor trudged on.

"I guess he was one of the gang after dad's invention," thought Tom,
"and he must have wanted to hinder me from getting to Albany, though
why I can't imagine." With a dubious shake of his head Tom
proceeded. It was hard work pushing the heavy machine through the
sand, and he was puffing before he had gone very far.

"I certainly am up against it," he murmured. "But if I can get a bit
of wire in Pompville I'll be all right. If I can't--"

Just then Tom saw something which caused him to utter an exclamation
of delight.

"That's the very thing!" he cried. "Why didn't I think of it
before?"

Leaving his motor-cycle standing against a tree Tom hurried to a
fence that separated the road from a field. The fence was a barbed-wire
one, and in a moment Tom had found a broken strand.

"Guess no one will care if I take a piece of this," he reasoned. "It
will answer until I can get more. I'll have it in place in a jiffy!"

It did not take long to get his pliers from his toolbag and snip off
a piece of the wire. Untwisting it he took out the sharp barbs, and
then was ready to attach it to the binding posts of the battery box
and the spark plug.

"Hold on, though!" he exclaimed as he paused in the work. "It's got
to be insulated, or it will vibrate against the metal of the machine
and short circuit. I have it! My handkerchief! I s'pose Mrs. Baggert
will kick at tearing up a good one, but I can't help it."

Tom took a spare handkerchief from the bundle in which he had a few
belongings carried with the idea of spending the night at an Albany
hotel, and he was soon wrapping strips of linen around the wire,
tying them with pieces of string.

"There!" he exclaimed at length. "That's insulated good enough, I
guess. Now to fasten it on and start."

The young inventor, who was quick with tools, soon had the
improvised wire in place. He tested the spark and found that it was
almost as good as when the regular copper conductor was in place.
Then, having taken a spare bit of the barbed-wire along in case of
another emergency, he jumped on the motor-cycle, pedaled it until
sufficient speed was attained, and turned on the power.

"That's the stuff!" he cried as the welcome explosions sounded. "I
guess I've fooled Happy Harry! I'll get to Albany pretty nearly on
time, anyhow. But that tramp surely had me worried for a while."

He rode into Pompville, and on inquiring in a plumbing shop managed
to get a bit of copper wire that answered better than did the
galvanized piece from the fence. The readjustment was quickly made,
and he was on his way again. As it was getting close to noon he
stopped near a little spring outside of Pompville and ate a
sandwich, washing it down with the cold water. Then he started for
Centreford.

As he was coming into the city he heard an automobile behind him. He
steered to one side of the road to give the big car plenty of room
to pass, but it did not come on as speedily as he thought it would.
He looked back and saw that it was going to stop near him.
Accordingly he shut off the power of his machine.

"Is this the road to Centreford?" asked one of the travelers in the
auto.

"Straight ahead," answered the lad.

At the sound of his voice one of the men in the big touring car
leaned forward and whispered something to one on the front seat. The
second man nodded, and looked closely at Tom. The youth, in turn,
stared at the men. He could not distinguish their faces, as they had
on auto goggles.

"How many miles is it?" asked the man who had whispered, and at the
sound of his voice Tom felt a vague sense that he had heard it
before.

"Three," answered the young inventor, and once more he saw the men
whisper among themselves.

"Thanks," spoke the driver of the car, and he threw in the gears. As
the big machine darted ahead the goggles which one of the men wore
slipped off. Tom had a glimpse of his face.

"Anson Morse!" he exclaimed. "If that isn't the man who was sneaking
around dad's motor shop he's his twin brother! I wonder if those
aren't the men who are after the patent model? I must be on my
guard!" and Tom, watching the car fade out of sight on the road
ahead of him, slowly started his motor-cycle. He was much puzzled
and alarmed.




CHAPTER XIII.

CAUGHT IN A STORM


The more Tom tried to reason out the cause of the men's actions, the
more he dwelt upon his encounter with the tramp, and the harder he
endeavored to seek a solution of the queer puzzle, the more
complicated it seemed. He rode on until he saw in a valley below him
the buildings of the town of Centreford, and, with a view of them, a
new idea came into his mind.

"I'll go get a good dinner," he decided, "and perhaps that will help
me to think more clearly. That's what dad always does when he's
puzzling over an invention." He was soon seated in a restaurant,
where he ate a substantial dinner. "I'm just going to stop puzzling
over this matter," he decided. "I'll push on to Albany and tell the
lawyer, Mr. Crawford. Perhaps he can advise me."

Once this decision was made Tom felt better.

"That's just what I needed," he thought; "some one to shift the
responsibility upon. I'll let the lawyers do the worrying. That's
what they're paid for. Now for Albany, and I hope I don't have to
stop, except for supper, until I get there. I've got to do some
night riding, but I've got a powerful lamp, and the roads from now
on are good."

Tom was soon on his way again. The highway leading to Albany was a
hard, macadam one, and he fairly flew along the level stretches.

"This is making good time," he thought. "I won't be so very late,
after all; that is, if nothing delays me."

The young inventor looked up into the sky. The sun, which had been
shining brightly all day, was now hidden behind a mass of hazy
clouds, for which the rider was duly grateful, as it was becoming
quite warm.

"It's more like summer than I thought," said Tom to himself. "I
shouldn't be surprised if we got rain to-morrow."

Another look at the sky confirmed him in this belief, and he had not
gone on many miles farther when his opinion was suddenly changed.
This was brought about by a dull rumble in the west, and Tom noticed
that a bank of low-lying clouds had formed, the black, inky masses
of vapor being whirled upward as if by some powerful blast.

"Guess my storm is going to arrive ahead of time," he said. "I'd
better look for shelter."

With a suddenness that characterizes summer showers, the whole sky
became overcast. The thunder increased, and the flashes of lightning
became more frequent and dazzling. A wind sprang up and blew clouds
of dust in Tom's face.

"It certainly is going to be a thunder storm," he admitted. "I'm
bound to be delayed now, for the roads will be mucky. Well, there's
no help for it. If I get to Albany before midnight I'll be doing
well."

A few drops of rain splashed on his hands, and as he looked up to
note the state of the sky others fell in his face. They were big
drops, and where they splashed on the road they formed little
globules of mud.

"I'll head for that big tree," thought Tom "It will give me some
shelter. I'll wait there--" His words were interrupted by a
deafening crash of thunder which followed close after a blinding
flash. "No tree for mine!" murmured Tom. "I forgot that they're
dangerous in a storm. I wonder where I can stay?"

He turned on all the power possible and sprinted ahead. Around a
curve in the road he went, leaning over to preserve his balance, and
just as the rain came pelting down in a torrent he saw just ahead of
him a white church on the lonely country road. To one side was a
long shed, where the farmers were in the habit of leaving their
teams when they came to service.

"Just the thing!" cried the boy; "and just in time!"

He turned his motor-cycle into the yard surrounding the church, and
a moment later had come to a stop beneath the shed. It was broad and
long, furnishing a good protection against the storm, which had now
burst in all its fury.

Tom was not very wet, and looking to see that the model, which was
partly of wood, had suffered no damage, the lad gave his attention
to his machine.

"Seems to be all right," he murmured. "I'll just oil her up while
I'm waiting. This can't last long; it's raining too hard."

He busied himself over the motor-cycle, adjusting a nut that had
been rattled loose, and putting some oil on the bearings. The rain
kept up steadily, and when he had completed his attentions to his
machine Tom looked out from under the protection of the shed.

"It certainly is coming down for keeps," he murmured. "This trip is
a regular hoodoo so far. Hope I have it better coming back."

As he looked down the road he espied an automobile coming through
the mist of rain. It was an open car, and as he saw the three men in
it huddled up under the insufficient protection of some blankets,
Tom said:

"They'd ought to come in here. There's lots of room. Maybe they
don't see it. I'll call to them."

The car was almost opposite the shed which was close to the roadside.
Tom was about to call when one of the men in the auto looked up. He
saw the shelter and spoke to the chauffeur. The latter was preparing
to steer up into the shed when the two men on the rear seat caught
sight of Tom.

"Why, that's the same car that passed me a while ago," said the
young inventor half aloud. "The one that contained those men whom I
suspected might be after dad's patent. I hope they--"

He did not finish his sentence, for at that instant the chauffeur
quickly swung the machine around and headed it back into the road.
Clearly the men were not going to take advantage of the shelter of
the shed.

"That's mighty strange," murmured Tom. "They certainly saw me, and
as soon as they did they turned away. Can they be afraid of me?"

He went to the edge of the shelter and peered out. The auto had
disappeared down the road behind a veil of rain, and, shaking his
head over the strange occurrence, Tom went back to where he had left
his motor-cycle.

"Things are getting more and more muddled," he said. "I'm sure those
were the same men, and yet--"

He shrugged his shoulders. The puzzle was getting beyond him.




CHAPTER XIV.

ATTACKED FROM BEHIND


Steadily the rain came down, the wind driving it under the shed
until Tom was hard put to find a place where the drops would not
reach him. He withdrew into a far corner, taking his motor-cycle with
him, and then, sitting on a block of wood, under the rough mangers
where the horses were fed while the farmers attended church, the lad
thought over the situation. He could make little of it, and the more
he tried the worse it seemed to become. He looked out across the wet
landscape.

"I wonder if this is ever going to stop?" he mused. "It looks as if
it was in for an all-day pour, yet we ought only to have a summer
shower by rights."

"But then I guess what I think about it won't influence the weather
man a bit. I might as well make myself comfortable, for I can't do
anything. Let's see. If I get to Fordham by six o'clock I ought to
be able to make Albany by nine, as it's only forty miles. I'll get
supper in Fordham, and push on. That is, I will if the rain stops."

That was the most necessary matter to have happen first, and Tom
arising from his seat strolled over to the front of the shed to look
out.

"I believe it is getting lighter in the west," he told himself.
"Yes, the clouds are lifting. It's going to clear. It's only a
summer shower, after all."

But just as he said that there came a sudden squall of wind and
rain, fiercer than any which had preceded. Tom was driven back to
his seat on the log. It was quite chilly now, and he noticed that
near where he sat there was a big opening in the rear of the shed,
where a couple of boards were off.

"This must be a draughty place in winter," he observed. "If I could
find a drier spot I'd sit there, but this seems to be the best," and
he remained there, musing on many things. Suddenly in the midst of
his thoughts he imagined he heard the sound of an automobile
approaching. "I wonder if those men are coming back here?" he
exclaimed. "If they are--"

The youth again arose, and went to the front of the shed. He could
see nothing, and came back to escape the rain. There was no doubt
but that the shower would soon be over, and looking at his watch,
Tom began to calculate when he might arrive in Albany.

He was busy trying to figure out the best plan to pursue, and was
hardly conscious of his surroundings. Seated on the log, with his
back to the opening in the shed, the young inventor could not see a
figure stealthily creeping up through the wet grass. Nor could he
see an automobile, which had come to a stop back of the horse
shelter--an automobile containing two rain-soaked men, who were
anxiously watching the one stealing through the grass.

Tom put his watch back into his pocket and looked out into the
storm. It was almost over. The sun was trying to shine through the
clouds, and only a few drops were falling. The youth stretched with
a yawn, for he was tired of sitting still. At the moment when he
raised his arms to relieve his muscles something was thrust through
the opening behind him. It was a long club, and an instant later it
descended on the lad's head. He went down in a heap, limp and
motionless.

Through the opening leaped a man. He bent over Tom, looked anxiously
at him, and then, stepping to the place where the boards were off
the shed, he motioned to the men in the automobile.

They hurried from the machine, and were soon beside their companion.

"I knocked him out, all right," observed the man who had reached
through and dealt Tom the blow with the club.

"Knocked him out! I should say you did, Featherton!" exclaimed one
who appeared better dressed than the others. "Have you killed him?"

"No; but I wish you wouldn't mention my name, Mr. Appleson. I--I
don't like--"

"Nonsense, Featherton. No one can hear us. But I'm afraid you've
done for the chap. I didn't want him harmed."

"Oh, I guess Featherton knows how to do it, Appleson," commented the
third man. "He's had experience that way, eh, Featherton?"

"Yes, Mr. Morse; but if you please I wish you wouldn't mention--"

"All right, Featherton, I know what you mean," rejoined the man
addressed as Morse. "Now let's see if we have drawn a blank or not.
I think he has with him the very thing we want."

"Doesn't seem to be about his person," observed Appleson, as he
carefully felt about the clothing of the unfortunate Tom.

"Very likely not. It's too bulky. But there's his motor-cycle over
there. It looks as if what we wanted was on the back of the saddle.
Jove, Featherton, but I think he's coming to!"

Tom stirred uneasily and moved his arms, while a moan came from
between his parted lips.

"I've got some stuff that will fix him!" exclaimed the man addressed
as Featherton, and who had been operating the automobile. He took
something from his pocket and leaned over Tom. In a moment the young
inventor was still again.

"Quick now, see if it's there," directed Morse, and Appleson hurried
over to the machine.

"Here it is!" he called. "I'll take it to our car, and we can get
away."

"Are you going to leave him here like this?" asked Morse.

"Yes; why not?"

"Because some one might have seen him come in here, and also
remember that we, too, came in this direction."

"What would you do?"

"Take him down the road a way and leave him. We can find some shed
near a farmhouse where he and his machine will be out of sight until
we get far enough away. Besides, I don't like to leave him so far
from help, unconscious as he is."

"Oh, you're getting chicken-hearted," said Appleson with a sneer.
"However, have your way about it. I wonder what has become of Jake
Burke? He was to meet us in Centreford, but he did not show up."

"Oh, I shouldn't be surprised if he had trouble in that tramp rig he
insisted on adopting. I told him he was running a risk, but he said
he had masqueraded as a tramp before."

"So he has. He's pretty good at it. Now, Simpson, if you will--"

"Not Simpson! I thought you agreed to call me Featherton,"
interrupted the chauffeur, turning to Morse and Appleson.

"Oh, so we did. I forgot that this lad met us one day, and heard me
call you Simpson," admitted Morse. "Well, Featherton it shall be.
But we haven't much time. It's stopped raining, and the roads will
soon be well traveled. We must get away, and if we are to take the
lad and his machine to some secluded place, we'd better be at it. No
use waiting for Burke. He can look out after himself. Anyhow, we
have the model now, and there's no use in him hanging around Swift's
shop, as he intended to do, waiting for a chance to sneak in after
it. Appleson, if you and Simpson--I mean Featherton--will carry
young Swift, I'll shove his wheel along to the auto, and we can put
it and him in."

The two men, first looking through the hole in the shed to make sure
they were not observed, went out, carrying Tom, who was no light
load. Morse followed them, pushing the motor-cycle, and carrying
under one arm the bundle containing the valuable model, which he had
detached.

"I think this is the time we get ahead of Mr. Swift," murmured
Morse, pulling his black mustache, when he and his companions had
reached the car in the field. "We have just what we want now."

"Yes, but we had hard enough work getting it," observed Appleson.
"Only by luck we saw this lad come in here, or we would have had to
chase all over for him, and maybe then we would have missed him.
Hurry, Simpson--I mean Featherton. It's getting late, and we've got
lots to do."

The chauffeur sprang to his seat, Appleson taking his place beside
him. The motor-cycle was tied on behind the big touring car, and
with the unconscious form of Tom in the tonneau, beside Morse, who
stroked his mustache nervously, the auto started off. The storm had
passed, and the sun was shining brightly, but Tom could not see it.




CHAPTER XV.

A VAIN SEARCH


Several hours later Tom had a curious dream. He imagined he was
wandering about in the polar regions, and that it was very cold. He
was trying to reason with himself that he could not possibly be on
an expedition searching for the North Pole, still he felt such a
keen wind blowing over his scantily-covered body that he shivered.
He shivered so hard, in fact, that he shivered himself awake, and
when he tried to pierce the darkness that enveloped him he was
startled, for a moment, with the idea that perhaps, after all, he
had wandered off to some unknown country.

For it was quite dark and cold. He was in a daze, and there was a
curious smell about him--an odor that he tried to recall. Then, all
at once, it came to him what it was--chloroform. Once his father had
undergone an operation, and to deaden his pain chloroform had been
used.

"I've been chloroformed!" exclaimed the young inventor, and his
words sounded strange in his ears. "That's it. I've met with an
accident riding my motor-cycle. I must have hit my head, for it
hurts fearful. They picked me up, carried me to a hospital and have
operated on me. I wonder if they took off an arm or leg? I wonder
what hospital I'm in? Why is it so dark and cold?"

As he asked himself these questions his brain gradually cleared from
the haze caused by the cowardly blow, and from the chloroform that
had been administered by Featherton.

Tom's first act was to feel first of one arm, then the other. Having
satisfied himself that neither of these members were mutilated he
reached down to his legs.

"Why, they're all right, too," he murmured. "I wonder what they did
to me? That's certainly, chloroform I smell, and my head feels as if
some one had sat on it. I wonder--"

Quickly he put up his hands to his head. There appeared to be
nothing the matter with it, save that there was quite a lump on the
back, where the club had struck.

"I seem to be all here," went on Tom, much mystified. "But where am
I? That's the question. It's a funny hospital, so cold and dark--"

Just then his hands came in contact with the cold ground on which he
was lying.

"Why, I'm outdoors!" he exclaimed. Then in a flash it all came back
to him--how he had gone to wait under the church shed until the rain
was over.

"I fell asleep, and now it's night," the youth went on. "No wonder I
am sore and stiff. And that chloroform--" He could not account for
that, and he paused, puzzled once more. Then he struggled to a
sitting position. His head was strangely dizzy, but he persisted,
and got to his feet. He could see nothing, and groped around in the
dark, until he thought to strike a match. Fortunately he had a
number in his pocket. As the little flame flared up Tom started in
surprise.

"This isn't the church shed!" he exclaimed. "It's much smaller! I'm
in a different place! Great Scott! but what has happened to me?"

The match burned Tom's fingers and he dropped it. The darkness
closed in once more, but Tom was used to it by this time, and
looking ahead of him he could make out that the shed was an open
one, similar to the one where he had taken shelter. He could see the
sky studded with stars, and could feel the cold night wind blowing
in.

"My motor-cycle!" he exclaimed in alarm. "The model of dad's
invention--the papers!"

Our hero thrust his hand into his pocket. The papers were gone!
Hurriedly he lighted another match. It took but an instant to glance
rapidly about the small shed. His machine was not in sight!

Tom felt his heart sink. After all his precautions he had been
robbed. The precious model was gone, and it had been his proposition
to take it to Albany in this manner. What would his father say?

The lad lighted match after match, and made a rapid tour of the
shed. The motor-cycle was not to be seen. But what puzzled Tom more
than anything else was how he had been brought from the church shed
to the one where he had awakened from his stupor.

"Let me try to think," said the boy, speaking aloud, for it seemed
to help him. "The last I remember is seeing that automobile, with
those mysterious men in, approaching. Then it disappeared in the
rain. I thought I heard it again, but I couldn't see it. I was
sitting on the log, and--and--well, that's all I can remember. I
wonder if those men--"

The young inventor paused. Like a flash it came to him that the men
were responsible for his predicament. They had somehow made him
insensible, stolen his motor-cycle, the papers and the model, and
then brought him to this place, wherever it was. Tom was a shrewd
reasoner, and he soon evolved a theory which he afterward learned
was the correct one. He reasoned out almost every step in the crime
of which he was the victim, and at last came to the conclusion that
the men had stolen up behind the shed and attacked him.

"Now, the next question to settle," spoke Tom, "is to learn where I
am. How far did those scoundrels carry me, and what has become of my
motor-cycle?"

He walked toward the point of the shed where he could observe the
stars gleaming, and there he lighted some more matches, hoping he
might see his machine. By the gleam of the little flame he noted
that he was in a farmyard, and he was just puzzling his brain over
the question as to what city or town he might be near when he heard
a voice shouting:

"Here, what you lightin' them matches for? You want to set the place
afire? Who be you, anyhow--a tramp?"

It was unmistakably the voice of a farmer, and Tom could hear
footsteps approaching on the run.

"Who be you, anyhow?" the voice repeated. "I'll have the constable
after you in a jiffy if you're a tramp."

"I'm not a tramp," called Tom promptly. "I've met with an accident.
Where am I?"

"Humph! Mighty funny if you don't know where you are," commented the
farmer. "Jed, bring a lantern until I take a look at who this is."

"All right, pop," answered another voice, and a moment later Tom saw
a tall man standing in front of him.

"I'll give you a look at me without waiting for the lantern," said
Tom quickly, and he struck a match, holding it so that the gleam
fell upon his face.

"Salt mackerel! It's a young feller!" exclaimed the farmer. "Who be
you, anyhow, and what you doin' here?"

"That's just what I would like to know," said Tom, passing his hand
over his head, which was still paining him. "Am I near Albany?
That's where I started for this morning."

"Albany? You're a good way from Albany," replied the farmer. "You're
in the village of Dunkirk."

"How far is that from Centreford?"

"About seventy miles."

"As far as that?" cried Tom. "They must have carried me a good way
in their automobile."

"Was you in that automobile?" demanded the farmer.

"Which one?" asked Tom quickly.

"The one that stopped down the road just before supper. I see it,
but I didn't pay no attention to it. If I'd 'a' knowed you fell out,
though, I'd 'a' come to help you."

"I didn't fall out, Mr.--er--" Tom paused.

"Blackford is my name; Amos Blackford."

"Well, Mr. Blackford, I didn't fall out. I was drugged and brought
here."

"Drugged! Salt mackerel! But there's been a crime committed, then.
Jed, hurry up with that lantern an' git your deputy sheriff's badge
on. There's been druggin' an' all sorts of crimes committed. I've
caught one of the victims. Hurry up! My son's a deputy sheriff," he
added, by way of an explanation.

"Then I hope he can help me catch the scoundrels who robbed me,"
said Tom.

"Robbed you, did they? Hurry up, Jed. There's been a robbery! We'll
rouse the neighborhood an' search for the villains. Hurry up, Jed!"

"I'd rather find my motor-cycle, and a valuable model which was on
it, than locate those men," went on Tom. "They also took some papers
from me."

Then he told how he had started for Albany, adding his theory of how
he had been attacked and carried away in the auto. The latter part
of it was borne out by the testimony of Mr. Blackford.

"What I know about it," said the farmer, when his son Jed had
arrived on the scene with a lantern and his badge, "is that jest
about supper time I saw an automobile stop down the road a bit, It
was gittin' dusk, an' I saw some men git out. I didn't pay no
attention to them, 'cause I was busy about the milkin'. The next I
knowed I seen some one strikin' matches in my wagon shed, an' I come
out to see what it was."

"The men must have brought me all the way from the church shed near
Centreford to here," declared Tom. "Then they lifted me out and put
me in your shed. Maybe they left my motor-cycle also."

"I didn't see nothin' like that," said the farmer. "Is that what you
call one of them two-wheeled lickity-split things that a man sits on
the middle of an' goes like chain-lightning?"

"It is," said Tom. "I wish you'd help me look for it."

The farmer and his son agreed, and other lanterns having been
secured, a search was made. After about half an hour the motor-cycle
was discovered in some bushes at the side of the road, near where
the automobile had stopped. But the model was missing from it, and a
careful search near where the machine had been hidden did not reveal
it. Nor did as careful a hunt as they could make in the darkness
disclose any clues to the scoundrels who had drugged and robbed Tom.




CHAPTER XVI.

BACK HOME


"We've got to organize a regular searchin' party," declared Jed
Blackford, after he and his father, together with Tom and the
farmer's hired man, had searched up and down the road by the light
of lanterns. "We'll organize a posse an' have a regular hunt. This
is the worst crime that's been committed in this deestrict in many
years, an' I'm goin' to run the scoundrels to earth."

"Don't be talkin' nonsense, Jed," interrupted his father. "You won't
catch them fellers in a hundred years. They're miles an' miles away
from here by this time in their automobile. All you can do is to
notify the sheriff. I guess we'd better give this young man some
attention. Let's see, you said your name was Quick, didn't you?"

"No, but it's very similar," answered Tom with a smile. "It's
Swift."

"I knowed it was something had to do with speed," went on Mr.
Blackford. "Wa'al, now, s'pose you come in the house an' have a hot
cup of tea. You look sort of draggled out."

Tom was glad enough to avail himself of the kind invitation, and he
was soon in the comfortable kitchen, relating his story, with more
detail, to the farmer and his family. Mrs. Blackford applied some
home-made remedies to the lump on the youth's head, and it felt much
better.

"I'd like to take a look at my motor-cycle," he said, after his
second cup of tea. "I want to see if those men damaged it any. If
they have I'm going to have trouble getting back home to tell my
father of my bad luck. Poor dad! He will be very much worried when I
tell him the model and his patent papers have been stolen."

"It's too bad!" exclaimed Mrs. Blackford. "I wish I had hold of them
scoundrels!" and her usually gentle face bore a severe frown. "Of
course you can have your thing-a-ma-bob in to see if it's hurt, but
please don't start it in here. They make a terrible racket."

"No, I'll look it over in the woodshed," promised Tom. "If it's all
right I think I'll start back home at once."

"No, you can't do that," declared Mr. Blackford. "You're in no
condition to travel. You might fall off an' git hurt. It's nearly ten
o'clock now. You jest stay here all night, an' in the mornin', if you
feel all right, you can start off. I couldn't let you go to-night."

Indeed, Tom did not feel very much like undertaking the journey, for
the blow on his head had made him dazed, and the chloroform caused a
sick feeling. Mr. Blackford wheeled the motor-cycle into the
woodhouse, which opened from the kitchen, and there the youth went
over the machine. He was glad to find that it had sustained no
damage. In the meanwhile Jed had gone off to tell the startling news
to near-by farmers. Quite a throng, with lanterns, went up and down
the road, but all the evidence they could find were the marks of the
automobile wheels, which clues were not very satisfactory.

"But we'll catch them in the mornin'," declared the deputy sheriff.
"I'll know that automobile again if I see it. It was painted red."

"That's the color of a number of automobiles," said Tom with a
smile. "I'm afraid you'll have trouble identifying it by that means.
I am surprised, though, that they did not carry my motor-cycle away
with them. It is a valuable machine."

"They were afraid to," declared Jed. "It would look queer to see a
machine like that in an auto. Of course when they were going along
country roads in the evening it didn't much matter, but when they
headed for the city, as they probably did, they knew it would
attract suspicion to 'em. I know, for I've been a deputy sheriff
'most a year."

"I believe you're right," agreed Tom. "They didn't dare take the
motor-cycle with them, but they hid it, hoping I would not find it.
I'd rather have the model and the papers, though, than half a dozen
motor-cycles."

"Maybe the police will help you find them," said Mrs. Blackford.
"Jed, you must telephone to the police the first thing in the
morning. It's a shame the way criminals are allowed to go on. If
honest people did those things, they'd be arrested in a minute, but
it seems that scoundrels can do as they please."

"You wait; I'll catch 'em!" declared Jed confidently. "I'll organize
another posse in the mornin'."

"Well, I know one thing, and that is that the place for this young
man is in bed!" exclaimed motherly Mrs. Blackford, and she insisted
on Tom retiring. He was somewhat restless at first, and the thought
of the loss of the model and the papers preyed on his mind. Then,
utterly exhausted, he sank into a heavy slumber, and did not awaken
until the sun was shining in his window the next morning. A good
breakfast made him feel somewhat better, and he was more like the
resourceful Tom Swift of old when he went to get his motor-cycle in
shape for the ride back to Shopton.

"Well, I hope you find those criminals," said Mr. Blackford, as he
watched Tom oiling the machine. "If you're ever out this way again,
stop off and see us."

"Yes, do," urged Mrs. Blackford, who was getting ready to churn. Her
husband looked at the old-fashioned barrel and dasher arrangement,
which she was filling with cream.

"What's the matter with the new churn?" he asked in some surprise.

"It's broken," she replied. "It's always the way with those new-fangled
things. It works ever so much nicer than this old one, though,"
she went on to Tom, "but it gets out of order easy."

"Let me look at it," suggested the young inventor. "I know something
about machinery."

The churn, which worked by a system of cogs and a handle, was
brought from the woodshed. Tom soon saw what the trouble was. One of
the cogs had become displaced. It did not take him five minutes,
with the tools he carried on his motor-cycle, to put it back, and
the churn was ready to use.

"Well, I declare!" exclaimed Mrs. Blackford. "You are handy at such
things!"

"Oh, it's just a knack," replied Tom modestly. "Now I'll put a plug
in there, and the cog wheel won't come loose again. The
manufacturers of it ought to have done that. I imagine lots of
people have this same trouble with these churns."

"Indeed they do," asserted Mrs. Blackford. "Sallie Armstrong has
one, and it got out of order the first week they had it. I'll let
her look at mine, and maybe her husband can fix it."

"I'd go and do it myself, but I want to get home," said Tom, and
then he showed her how, by inserting a small iron plug in a certain
place, there would be no danger of the cog coming loose again.

"That's certainly slick!" exclaimed Mr. Blackford. "Well, I wish you
good luck, Mr. Swift, and if I see those scoundrels around this
neighborhood again I'll make 'em wish they'd let you alone."

"That's what," added Jed, polishing his badge with his big, red
handkerchief.

Mrs. Blackford transferred the cream to the new churn which Tom had
fixed, and as he rode off down the highway on his motor-cycle, she
waved one hand to him, while with the other she operated the handle
of the apparatus.

"Now for a quick run to Shopton to tell dad the bad news," spoke Tom
to himself as he turned on full speed and dashed away. "My trip has
been a failure so far."




CHAPTER XVII.

MR. SWIFT IN DESPAIR


Tom was thinking of many things as his speedy machine carried him
mile after mile nearer home. By noon he was over half way on his
journey, and he stopped in a small village for his dinner.

"I think I'll make inquiries of the police here, to see if they
caught sight of those men," decided Tom as he left the restaurant.
"Though I am inclined to believe they kept on to Albany, or some
large city, where they have their headquarters. They will want to
make use of dad's model as soon as possible, though what they will
do with it I don't know." He tried to telephone to his father, but
could get no connection, as the wire was being repaired.

The police force of the place where Tom had stopped for lunch was
like the town itself--small and not of much consequence. The chief
constable, for he was not what one could call a chief of police, had
heard of the matter from the alarm sent out in all directions from
Dunkirk, where Mr. Blackford lived.

"You don't mean to tell me you're the young man who was chloroformed
and robbed!" exclaimed the constable, looking at Tom as if he
doubted his word.

"I'm the young man," declared our hero. "Have you seen anything of
the thieves?"

"Not a thing, though I've instructed all my men to keep a sharp
lookout for a red automobile, with three scoundrels in it. My men
are to make an arrest on sight."

"How many men have you?"

"Two," was the rather surprising answer; "but one has to work on a
farm daytimes, so I ain't really got but one in what you might call
active service."

Tom restrained a desire to laugh. At any rate, the aged constable
meant well.

"One of my men seen a red automobile, a little while before you come
in my office," went on the official, "but it wasn't the one wanted,
'cause a young woman was running it all alone. It struck me as
rather curious that a woman would trust herself all alone in one of
them things; wouldn't it you?"

"Oh, no, women and young ladies often operate them," said Tom.

"I should think you'd find one handier than the two-wheeled
apparatus you have out there," went on the constable, indicating the
motor-cycle, which Tom had stood up against a tree.

"I may have one some day," replied the young inventor. "But I guess
I'll be moving on now. Here's my address, in case you hear anything
of those men, but I don't imagine you will."

"Me either. Fellows as slick as them are won't come back this way
and run the chance of being arrested by my men. I have two on duty
nights," he went on proudly, "besides myself, so you see we're
pretty well protected."

Tom thanked him for the trouble he had taken, and was soon on his
way again. He swept on along the quiet country roads anxious for the
time when he could consult with his father over what would be the
best course to take.

When Tom was about a mile away from his house he saw in the road
ahead of him a rickety old wagon, and a second glance at it told him
the outfit belonged to Eradicate Sampson, for the animal drawing the
vehicle was none other than the mule, Boomerang.

"But what in the world is Rad up to?" mused Tom, for the colored man
was out of the wagon and was going up and down in the grass at the
side of the highway in a curious fashion. "I guess he's lost
something," decided Tom.

When he got nearer he saw what Eradicate was doing. The colored man
was pushing a lawn-mower slowly to and fro in the tall, rank grass
that grew beside the thoroughfare, and at the sound of Tom's
motor-cycle the negro looked up. There was such a woe-begone
expression on his face that Tom at once stopped his machine and got
off.

"What's the matter, Rad?" Tom asked.

"Mattah, Mistah Swift? Why, dere's a pow'ful lot de mattah, an'
dat's de truff. I'se been swindled, dat's what I has."

"Swindled? How?"

"Well, it's dis-a-way. Yo' see dis yeah lawn-moah?"

"Yes; it doesn't seem to work," and Tom glanced critically at it. As
Eradicate pushed it slowly to and fro, the blades did not revolve,
and the wheels slipped along on the grass.

"No, sah, it doan't work, an' dat's how I've been swindled, Mistah
Swift. Yo' see, I done traded mah ole grindstone off for dis yeah
lawn-moah, an' I got stuck."

"What, that old grindstone that was broken in two, and that you
fastened together with concrete?" asked Tom, for he had seen the
outfit with which Eradicate, in spare times between cleaning and
whitewashing, had gone about the country, sharpening knives and
scissors. "You don't mean that old, broken one?"

"Dat's what I mean, Mistah Swift. Why, it was all right. I mended it
so dat de break wouldn't show, an' it would sharpen things if yo'
run it slow. But dis yeah lawn-moah won't wuk slow ner fast."

"I guess it was an even exchange, then," went on Tom. "You didn't
get bitten any worse than the other fellow did."

"Yo' doan't s'pose yo' kin fix dis yeah moah so's I kin use it, does
yo', Mistah Swift?" asked Eradicate, not bothering to go into the
ethics of the matter. "I reckon now with summah comin' on I kin make
mo' with a lawn-moah than I kin with a grindstone--dat is, ef I kin
git it to wuk. I jest got it a while ago an' decided to try it, but
it won't cut no grass."

"I haven't much time," said Tom, "for I'm anxious to get home, but
I'll take a look at it."

Tom leaned his motor-cycle against the fence. He could no more pass
a bit of broken machinery, which he thought he could mend, than some
men and boys can pass by a baseball game without stopping to watch
it, no matter how pressed they are for time. It was Tom's hobby, and
he delighted in nothing so much as tinkering with machines, from
lawn-mowers to steam engines.

Tom took hold of the handle, which Eradicate gladly relinquished to
him, and his trained touch told him at once what was the trouble.

"Some one has had the wheels off and put them on wrong, Rad," he
said. "The ratchet and pawl are reversed. This mower would work
backwards, if that were possible."

"Am dat so, Mistah Swift?"

"That's it. All I have to do is to take off the wheels and reverse
the pawl."

"I--I didn't know mah lawn-moah was named Paul," said the colored
man. "Is it writ on it anywhere?"

"No, it's not the kind of Paul you mean," said Tom with a laugh.
"It's spelled differently. A pawl is a sort of catch that fits into
a ratchet wheel and pushes it around, or it may be used as a catch
to prevent the backward motion of a windlass or the wheel on a
derrick. I'll have it fixed in a jiffy for you."

Tom worked rapidly. With a monkey-wrench he removed the two big
wheels of the lawn-mower and reversed the pawl in the cogs. In five
minutes he had replaced the wheels, and the machine, except for
needed sharpening, did good work.

"There you are, Rad!" exclaimed Tom at length.

"Yo' suah am a wonder at inventin'!" cried the colored man
gratefully. "I'll cut yo' grass all summah fo' yo' to pay fo' this,
Mistah Swift."

"Oh, that's too much. I didn't do a great deal, Rad."

"Well, yo' saved me from bein' swindled, Mistah Swift, an' I suah
does 'preciate dat."

"How about the fellow you traded the cracked grindstone to, Rad?"

"Oh, well, ef he done run it slow it won't fly apart, an' he'll do
dat, anyhow, fo' he suah am a lazy coon. I guess we am about even
there, Mistah Swift."

"All right," spoke Tom with a laugh. "Sharpen it up, Rad, and start
in to cut grass. It will soon be summer," and Tom, leaping upon his
motor-cycle, was off like a shot.

He found his father in his library, reading a book on scientific
matters. Mr. Swift looked up in surprise at seeing his son.

"What! Back so soon?" he asked. "You did make a flying trip. Did you
give the model and papers to Mr. Crawford?"

"No, dad, I was robbed yesterday. Those scoundrels got ahead of us,
after all. They have your model. I tried to telephone to you, but
the wires were down, or something."

"What!" cried Mr. Swift. "Oh, Tom! That's too bad! I will lose ten
thousand dollars if I can't get that model and those papers back!"
and with a despairing gesture Mr. Swift rose and began to pace the
floor.




CHAPTER XVIII.

HAPPY HARRY AGAIN


Tom watched his father anxiously. The young inventor knew the loss
had been a heavy one, and he blamed himself for not having been more
careful.

"Tell me all about it, Tom," said Mr. Swift at length. "Are you sure
the model and papers are gone? How did it happen?"

Then Tom related what had befallen him.

"Oh, that's too bad!" cried Mr. Swift. "Are you much hurt, Tom?
Shall I send for the doctor?" For the time being his anxiety over
his son was greater than that concerning his loss.

"No, indeed, dad. I'm all right now. I got a bad blow on the head,
but Mrs. Blackford fixed me up. I'm awfully sorry---"

"There, there! Now don't say another word," interrupted Mr. Swift.
"It wasn't your fault. It might have happened to me. I dare say it
would, for those scoundrels seemed very determined. They are
desperate, and will stop at nothing to make good the loss they
sustained on the patent motor they exploited. Now they will probably
try to make use of my model and papers."

"Do you think they'll do that, dad?"

"Yes. They will either make a motor exactly like mine, or construct
one so nearly similar that it will answer their purpose. I will have
no redress against them, as my patent is not fully granted yet. Mr.
Crawford was to attend to that."

"Can't you do anything to stop them, dad? File an injunction, or
something like that?"

"I don't know. I must see Mr. Crawford at once. I wonder if he could
come here? He might be able to advise me. I have had very little
experience with legal difficulties. My specialty is in other lines
of work. But I must do something. Every moment is valuable. I wonder
who the men were?"

"I'm sure one of them was the same man who came here that night--the
man with the black mustache, who dropped the telegram," said Tom. "I
had a pretty good look at him as the auto passed me, and I'm sure it
was he. Of course I didn't see who it was that struck me down, but I
imagine it was some one of the same gang."

"Very likely. Well, Tom, I must do something. I suppose I might
telegraph to Mr. Crawford--he will be expecting you in Albany--" Mr.
Swift paused musingly. "No, I have it!" he suddenly exclaimed. "I'll
go to Albany myself."

"Go to Albany, dad?"

"Yes; I must explain everything to the lawyers and then he can
advise me what to do. Fortunately I have some papers, duplicates of
those you took, which I can show him. Of course the originals will
be necessary before I can prove my claim. The loss of the model is
the most severe, however. Without that I can do little. But I will
have Mr. Crawford take whatever steps are possible. I'll take the
night train, Tom. I'll have to leave you to look after matters here,
and I needn't caution you to be on your guard, though, having got
what they were after, I fancy those financiers, or their tools, will
not bother us again."

"Very likely not," agreed Tom, "but I will keep my eyes open, just
the same. Oh, but that reminds me, dad. Did you see anything of a
tramp around here while I was away?"

"A tramp? No; but you had better ask Mrs. Baggert. She usually
attends to them. She's so kind-hearted that she frequently gives
them a good meal."

The housekeeper, when consulted, said that no tramps had applied in
the last few days.

"Why do you ask, Tom?" inquired his father.

"Because I had an experience with one, and I believe he was a member
of the same gang who robbed me." And thereupon Tom told of his
encounter with Happy Harry, and how the latter had broken the wire
on the motor-cycle.

"You had a narrow escape," commented Mr. Swift. "If I had known the
dangers involved I would never have allowed you to take the model to
Albany."

"Well, I didn't take it there, after all," said Tom with a grim
smile, for he could appreciate a joke.

"I must hurry and pack my valise," went on Mr. Swift. "Mrs. Baggert,
we will have an early supper, and I will start at once for Albany."

"I wish I could go with you, dad, to make up for the trouble I
caused," spoke Tom.

"Tut, tut! Don't talk that way," advised his father kindly. "I will
be glad of the trip. It will ease my mind to be doing something."

Tom felt rather lonesome after his father had left, but he laid out
a plan of action for himself that he thought would keep him occupied
until his father returned. In the first place he made a tour of the
house and various machine shops to see that doors and windows were
securely fastened.

"What's the matter? Do you expect burglars, Master Tom?" asked
Garret Jackson, the aged engineer.

"Well, Garret, you never can tell," replied the young inventor, as
he told of his experience and the necessity for Mr. Swift going to
Albany. "Some of those scoundrels, finding how easy it was to rob
me, may try it again, and get some at dad's other valuable models.
I'm taking no chances."

"That's right, Master Tom. I'll keep steam up in the boiler to-night,
though we don't really need it, as your father told me you would
probably not run any machinery when he was gone. But with a good head
of steam up, and a hose handy, I can give any burglars a hot
reception. I almost wish they'd come, so I could get square with
them."

"I don't, Garret. Well, I guess everything is in good shape. If you
hear anything unusual, or the alarm goes off during the night, call
me."

"I will, Master Tom," and the old engineer, who had a living-room in
a shack adjoining the boiler-room, locked the door after Tom left.

The young inventor spent the early evening in attaching a new wire
to his motor-cycle to replace the one he had purchased while on his
disastrous trip. The temporary one was not just the proper thing,
though it answered well enough. Then, having done some work on a new
boat propeller he was contemplating patenting, Tom felt that it was
time to go to bed, as he was tired. He made a second round of the
house, looking to doors and windows, until Mrs. Baggert exclaimed:

"Oh, Tom, do stop! You make me nervous, going around that way. I'm
sure I shan't sleep a wink to-night, thinking of burglars and
tramps."

Tom laughingly desisted, and went up to his room. He sat up a few
minutes, writing a letter to a girl of his acquaintance, for, in
spite of the fact that the young inventor was very busy with his own
and his father's work, he found time for lighter pleasures. Then, as
his eyes seemed determined to close of their own accord, if he did
not let them, he tumbled into bed.

Tom fancied it was nearly morning when he suddenly awoke with a
start. He heard a noise, and at first he could not locate it. Then
his trained ear traced it to the dining-room.

"Why, Mrs. Baggert must be getting breakfast, and is rattling the
dishes," he thought. "But why is she up so early?"

It was quite dark in Tom's room, save for a little gleam from the
crescent moon, and by the light of this Tom arose and looked at his
watch.

"Two o'clock," he whispered. "That can't be Mrs. Baggert, unless
she's sick, and got up to take some medicine."

He listened intently. Below, in the dining-room, he could hear
stealthy movements.

"Mrs. Baggert would never move around like that," he decided. "She's
too heavy. I wonder--it's a burglar--one of the gang has gotten in!"
he exclaimed in tense tones. "I'm going to catch him at it!"

Hurriedly he slipped on some clothes, and then, having softly turned
on the electric light in his room, he took from a corner a small
rifle, which he made sure was loaded. Then, having taken a small
electric flashlight, of the kind used by police men, and sometimes
by burglars, he started on tiptoe toward the lower floor.

As Tom softly descended the stairs he could more plainly hear the
movements of the intruder. He made out now that the burglar was in
Mr. Swift's study, which opened from the dining-room.

"He's after dad's papers!" thought Tom. "I wonder which one this
is?"

The youth had often gone hunting in the woods, and he knew how to
approach cautiously. Thus he was able to reach the door of the
dining-room without being detected. He had no need to flash his
light, for the intruder was doing that so frequently with one he
carried that Tom could see him perfectly. The fellow was working at
the safe in which Mr. Swift kept his more valuable papers.

Softly, very softly Tom brought his rifle to bear on the back of the
thief. Then, holding the weapon with one hand, for it was very
light, Tom extended the electric flash, so that the glare would be
thrown on the intruder and would leave his own person in the black
shadows. Pressing the spring which caused the lantern to throw out a
powerful glow, Tom focused the rays on the kneeling man.

"That will be about all!" the youth exclaimed in as steady a voice
as he could manage.

The burglar turned like a flash, and Tom had a glimpse of his face.
It was the tramp--Happy Harry--whom he had encountered on the lonely
road.




CHAPTER XIX.

TOM ON A HUNT


Tom held his rifle in readiness, though he only intended it as a
means of intimidation, and would not have fired at the burglar
except to save his own life. But the sight of the weapon was enough
for the tramp. He crouched motionless. His own light had gone out,
but by the gleam of the electric he carried Tom could see that the
man had in his hand some tool with which he had been endeavoring to
force the safe.

"I guess you've got me!" exclaimed the intruder, and there was in
his tones no trace of the tramp dialect.

"It looks like it," agreed Tom grimly. "Are you a tramp now, or in
some other disguise?"

"Can't you see?" asked the fellow sullenly, and then Tom did notice
that the man still had on his tramp make-up.

"What do you want?" asked Tom.

"Hard to tell," replied the burglar calmly. "I hadn't got the safe
open before you came down and disturbed me. I'm after money,
naturally."

"No, you're not!" exclaimed Tom.

"What's that?" and the man seemed surprised.

"No, you're not!" went on Tom, and he held his rifle in readiness.
"You're after the patent papers and the model of the turbine motor.
But it's gone. Your confederates got it away from me. They probably
haven't told you yet, and you're still on the hunt for it. You'll
not get it, but I've got you."

"So I see," admitted Happy Harry, and he spoke with some culture.
"If you don't mind," he went on, "would you just as soon move that
gun a little? It's pointing right at my head, and it might go off."

"It is going off--very soon!" exclaimed Tom grimly, and the tramp
started in alarm. "Oh, I'm not going to shoot you," continued the
young inventor. "I'm going to fire this as an alarm, and the
engineer will come in here and tie you up. Then I'm going to hand
you over to the police. This rifle is a repeater, and I am a pretty
good shot. I'm going to fire once now, to summon assistance, and if
you try to get away I'll be ready to fire a second time, and that
won't be so comfortable for you. I've caught you, and I'm going to
hold on to you until I get that model and those papers back."

"Oh, you are, eh?" asked the burglar calmly. "Well, all I've got to
say is that you have grit. Go ahead. I'm caught good and proper. I
was foolish to come in here, but I thought I'd take a chance."

"Who are you, anyhow? Who are the men working with you to defraud my
father of his rights?" asked Tom somewhat bitterly.

"I'll never tell you," answered the burglar. "I was hired to do
certain work, and that's all there is to it. I'm not going to peach
on my pals."

"We'll see about that!" burst out Tom. Then he noticed that a
dining-room window behind where the burglar was kneeling was open.
Doubtless the intruder had entered that way, and intended to escape
in the same manner.

"I'm going to shoot," announced Tom, and, aiming his rifle at the
open window, where the bullet would do no damage, he pressed the
trigger. He noticed that the burglar was crouching low down on the
floor, but Tom thought nothing of this at the time. He imagined that
Happy Harry--or whatever his name was--might be afraid of getting
hit.

There was a flash of fire and a deafening report as Tom fired. The
cloud of smoke obscured his vision for a moment, and as the echoes
died away Tom could hear Mrs. Baggert screaming in her room.

"It's all right!" cried the young inventor reassuringly. "No one is
hurt, Mrs. Baggert!" Then he flashed his light on the spot where the
burglar had crouched. As the smoke rolled away Tom peered in vain
for a sight of the intruder.

Happy Harry was gone!

Holding his rifle in readiness, in case he should be attacked from
some unexpected quarter, Tom strode forward. He flashed his light in
every direction. There was no doubt about it. The intruder had fled.
Taking advantage of the noise when the gun was fired, and under
cover of the smoke, the burglar had leaped from the open window. Tom
guessed as much. He hurried to the casement and peered out, at the
same time noticing the cut wire of the burglar alarm. It was quite
dark, and he fancied he could hear the noise of some one running
rapidly. Aiming his rifle into the air, he fired again, at the same
time crying out:

"Hold on!"

"All right, Master Tom, I'm coming!" called the voice of the
engineer from his shack. "Are you hurt? Is Mrs. Baggert murdered? I
hear her screaming."

"That's pretty good evidence that she isn't murdered," said Tom with
a grim smile.

"Are you hurt?" again called Mr. Jackson.

"No, I'm all right," answered Tom. "Did you see any one running away
as you came up?"

"No, Master Tom, I didn't. What happened?"

"A burglar got in, and I had him cornered, but he got away when I
fired to arouse you."

By this time the engineer was at the stoop, on which the window
opened. Tom unlocked a side door and admitted Mr. Jackson, and then,
the incandescent light having been turned on, the two looked around
the apartment. Nothing in it had been disturbed, and the safe had
not been opened.

"I heard him just in time," commented Tom, telling the engineer what
had happened. "I wish I had thought to get between him and the
window. Then he couldn't have gotten away."

"He might have injured you, though," said Mr. Jackson. "We'll go
outside now, and look--"

"Is any one killed? Are you both murdered?" cried Mrs. Baggert at
the dining-room door. "If any one is killed I'm not coming in there.
I can't bear the sight of blood."

"No one is hurt," declared Tom with a laugh. "Come on in, Mrs.
Baggert," and the housekeeper entered, her hair all done up in curl
papers.

"Oh, my goodness me!" she exclaimed. "When I heard that cannon go
off I was sure the house was coming down. How is it some one wasn't
killed?"

"That wasn't a cannon; it was only my little rifle," said Tom, and
then he told again, for the benefit of the housekeeper, the story of
what had happened.

"We'd better hurry and look around the premises," suggested Mr.
Jackson. "Maybe he is hiding, and will come back, or perhaps he has
some confederates on the watch."

"Not much danger of that," declared Tom. "Happy Harry is far enough
away from here now, and so are his confederates, if he had any,
which I doubt. Still, it will do no harm to take a look around."

A search resulted in nothing, however, and the Swift household had
soon settled down again, though no one slept soundly during the
remainder of the night.

In the morning Tom sent word of what had happened to the police of
Shopton. Some officers came out to the house, but, beyond looking
wisely at the window by which the burglar had entered and at some
footprints in the garden, they could do nothing. Tom wanted to go
off on his motor-cycle on a tour of the surrounding neighborhood to
see if he could get any clues, but he did not think it would be wise
in the absence of his father. He thought it would be better to
remain at home, in case any further efforts were made to get
possession of valuable models or papers.

"There's not much likelihood of that, though," said Tom to the old
engineer. "Those fellows have what they want, and are not going to
bother us again. I would like to get that model back for dad,
though. If they file it and take out a patent, even if he can prove
that it is his, it will mean a long lawsuit and he may be defrauded
of his rights, after all. Possession is nine points of the law, and
part of the tenth, too, I guess."

So Tom remained at home and busied himself as well as he could over
some new machines he was constructing. He got a telegram from his
father that afternoon, stating that Mr. Swift had safely arrived in
Albany, and would return the following day.

"Did you have any luck, dad?" asked the young inventor, when his
father, tired and worn from the unaccustomed traveling, reached home
in the evening.

"Not much, Tom," was the reply. "Mr. Crawford has gone back to
Washington, and he is going to do what he can to prevent those men
taking advantage of me."

"Did you get any trace of the thieves? Does Mr. Crawford think he
can?"

"No to both questions. His idea is that the men will remain in
hiding for a while, and then, when the matter has quieted down, they
will proceed to get a patent on the motor that I invented."

"But, in the meanwhile, can't you make another model and get a
patent yourself?"

"No; there are certain legal difficulties in the way. Besides, those
men have the original papers I need. As for the model, it will take
me nearly a year to build a new one that will work properly, as it
is very complicated. I am afraid, Tom, that all my labor on the
turbine motor is thrown away. Those scoundrels will reap the benefit
of it."

"Oh, I hope not, dad! I'm sure those fellows will be caught. Now
that you are back home again, I'm going out on a hunt on my own
account. I don't put much faith in the police. It was through me,
dad, that you lost your model and the papers, and I'll get them
back!"

"No, you must not think it was your fault, Tom," said his father.
"You could not help it, though I appreciate your desire to recover
the missing model."

"And I'll do it, too, dad. I'll start to-morrow, and I'll make a
complete circuit of the country for a hundred miles around. I can
easily do it on my motor-cycle. If I can't get on the trail of the
three men who robbed me, maybe I can find Happy Harry."

"I doubt it, my son. Still, you may try. Now I must write to Mr.
Crawford and tell him about the attempted burglary while I was away.
It may give him a clue to work on. I'm afraid you ran quite a risk,
Tom."

"I didn't think about that, dad. I only wish I had managed to keep
that rascal a prisoner."

The next day Tom started off on a hunt. He planned to be gone
overnight, as he intended to go first to Dunkirk, where Mr.
Blackford lived, and begin his search from there.




CHAPTER XX.

ERADICATE SAWS WOOD


The farmer's family, including the son who was a deputy sheriff, was
glad to see Tom. Jed said he had "been on the job" ever since the
mysterious robbery of Tom had taken place, but though he had seen
many red automobiles he had no trace of the three men.

From Dunkirk Tom went back over the route he had taken in going from
Pompville to Centreford, and made some inquiries in the neighborhood
of the church shed, where he had taken shelter. The locality was
sparsely settled, however, and no one could give any clues to the
robbers.

The young inventor next made a trip over the lonely, sandy road,
where he had met with the tramp, Happy Harry. But there were even
fewer houses near that stretch than around the church, so he got no
satisfaction there. Tom spent the night at a country inn, and
resumed his search the next morning, but with no results. The men
had apparently completely disappeared, leaving no traces behind
them.

"I may as well go home," thought Tom, as he was riding his motor-cycle
along a pleasant country road. "Dad may be worried, and perhaps
something has turned up in Shopton that will aid me. If there isn't,
I'm going to start out again in a few days in another direction."

There was no news in Shopton, however. Tom found his father
scarcely able to work, so worried was he over the loss of his most
important invention.

Two weeks passed, the young machinist taking trips of several days'
duration to different points near his home, in the hope of
discovering something. But he was unsuccessful, and, in the
meanwhile, no reassuring word was received from the lawyers in
Washington. Mr. Crawford wrote that no move had yet been made by the
thieves to take out patent papers, and while this, in a sense, was
some aid to Mr. Swift, still he could not proceed on his own account
to protect his new motor. All that could be done was to await the
first movement on the part of the scoundrels.

"I think I'll try a new plan to-morrow, dad," announced Tom one
night, when he and his father had talked over again, for perhaps the
twentieth time, the happenings of the last few weeks.

"What is it, Tom?" asked the inventor.

"Well, I think I'll take a week's trip on my machine. I'll visit all
the small towns around here, but, instead of asking in houses for
news of the tramp or his confederates, I'll go to the police and
constables. I'll ask if they have arrested any tramps recently, and,
if they have, I'll ask them to let me see the 'hobo' prisoners."

"What good will that do?"

"I'll tell you. I have an idea that though the burglar who got in
here may not be a regular tramp, yet he disguises himself like one
at times, and may be known to other tramps. If I can get on the
trail of Happy Harry, as he calls himself, I may locate the other
men. Tramps would be very likely to remember such a peculiar chap as
Happy Harry, and they will tell me where they had last seen him.
Then I will have a starting point."

"Well, that may be a good plan," assented Mr. Swift. "At any rate it
will do no harm to try. A tramp locked up in a country police
station will very likely be willing to talk. Go ahead with that
scheme, Tom, but don't get into any danger. How long will you be
away?"

"I don't know. A week, perhaps; maybe longer. I'll take plenty of
money with me, and stop at country hotels overnight."

Tom lost no time in putting his plan into execution. He packed some
clothes in a grip, which he attached to the rear of his motor-cycle,
and then having said good-by to his father, started off. The first
three days he met with no success. He located several tramps in
country lock-ups, where they had been sent for begging or loitering,
but none of them knew Happy Harry or had ever heard of a tramp
answering his description.

"He ain't one of us, youse can make up your mind to dat," said one
"hobo" whom Tom interviewed. "No real knight of de highway goes
around in a disguise. We leaves dat for de story-book detectives.
I'm de real article, I am, an' I don't know Happy Harry. But, fer
dat matter, any of us is happy enough in de summer time, if we don't
strike a burgh like dis, where dey jugs you fer panhandlin'."

In general, Tom found the tramp willing enough to answer his
questions, though some were sullen, and returned only surly growls
to his inquiries.

"I guess I'll have to give it up and go back home," he decided one
night. But there was a small town, not many miles from Shopton,
which he had not yet visited, and he resolved to try there before
returning. Accordingly, the next morning found him inquiring of the
police authorities in Meadton. But no tramps had been arrested in
the last month, and no one had seen anything of a tramp like Happy
Harry or three mysterious men in an automobile.

Tom was beginning to despair. Riding along a silent road, that
passed through a strip of woods, he was trying to think of some new
line of procedure, when the silence of the highway, that, hitherto,
had resounded only with the muffled explosions of his machine, was
broken by several exclamations.

"Now, Boomerang, yo' might jest as well start now as later," Tom heard
a voice saying--a voice he recognized well. "Yo' hab got t' do dis
yeah wuk, an' dere ain't no gittin' out ob it. Dis yeah wood am got to
be sawed, an' yo' hab got to saw it. But it am jest laik yo' to go
back on yo' ole friend Eradicate in dis yeah fashion. I neber could
tell what yo' were gwine t' do next, an' I cain't now. G'lang, now,
won't yo'? Let's git dis yeah sawmill started."

Tom shut off the power and leaped from his wheel. From the woods at
his left came the protesting "hee-haw" of a mule.

"Boomerang and Eradicate Sampson!" exclaimed the young inventor.
"What can they be doing here?"

He leaned his motor-cycle against the fence and advanced toward
where he had heard the voice of the colored man. In a little
clearing he saw him. Eradicate was presiding over a portable
sawmill, worked by a treadmill, on the incline of which was the
mule, its ears laid back, and an unmistakable expression of anger on
its face.

"Why, Rad, what are you doing?" cried Tom.

"Good land o' massy! Ef it ain't young Mistah Swift!" cried the
darky. "Howdy, Mistah Swift! Howdy! I'm jest tryin' t' saw some
wood, t' make a livin', but Boomerang he doan't seem t' want t'
lib," and with that Eradicate looked reproachfully at the animal.

"What seems to be the trouble, and how did you come to own this
sawmill?" asked Tom.

"I'll tell yo', Mistah Swift, I'll tell yo'," spoke Eradicate. "Sit
right yeah on dis log, an' I'll explanation it to yo'."

"The last time I saw you, you were preparing to go into the grass-cutting
business," went on Tom.

"Yais, sah! Dat's right. So I was. Yo' has got a memory, yo' suah
has. But it am dis yeah way. Grass ain't growin' quick enough, an'
so I traded off dat lawn-moah an' bought dis yeah mill. But now it
won't go, an' I suah am in trouble," and once more Eradicate Sampson
looked indignantly at Boomerang.




CHAPTER XXI.

ERADICATE GIVES A CLUE


"Tell me all about it," urged Tom sympathetically, for he had a
friendly feeling toward the aged darky.

"Well," began Eradicate, "I suah thought I were gwine to make money
cuttin' grass, 'specially after yo' done fixed mah moah. But 'peared
laik nobody wanted any grass cut. I trabeled all ober, an' I
couldn't git no jobs. Now me an' Boomerang has to eat, no mattah ef
he is contrary, so I had t' look fo' some new wuk. I traded dat
lawn-moah off fo' a cross-cut saw, but dat was such hard wuk dat I
gib it up. Den I got a chance to buy dis yeah outfit cheap, an' I
bought it."

Eradicate then went on to tell how he had purchased the portable
sawmill from a man who had no further use for it, and how he had
managed to transport it from a distant village to the spot where Tom
had met him. There he had secured permission to work a piece of
woodland on shares, sawing up the smaller trees into cord wood. He
had started in well enough, cutting down considerable timber, for
the colored man was a willing worker, but when he tried to start his
mill he met with trouble.

"I counted on Boomerang helpin' me," he said to Tom. "All he has to
do is walk on dat tread mill, an' keep goin'. Dat makes de saw go
'round, an' I saws de wood. But de trouble am dat I can't git
Boomerang to move. I done tried ebery means I knows on, an' he won't
go. I talked kind to him, an' I talked harsh. I done beat him wif a
club, an' I rub his ears soft laik, an' he allers did laik dat, but
he won't go. I fed him on carrots an' I gib him sugar, an' I eben
starve him, but he won't go. Heah I been tryin' fo' three days now
t' git him started, an' not a stick hab I sawed. De man what I'm
wukin' wif on shares he git mad, an' he say ef I doan't saw wood
pretty soon he gwine t' git annuder mill heah. Now I axes yo' fair,
Mistah Swift, ain't I got lots ob trouble?"

"You certainly seem to have," agreed Tom "But why is Boomerang so
obstinate? Usually on a treadmill a horse or a mule has to work
whether they like it or not. If they don't keep moving the platform
slides out from under them, and they come up against the back bar."

"Dat's what done happened to Boomerang," declared Eradicate. "He
done back up against de bar, an' dere he stay."

Tom went over and looked at the mill. The outfit was an old one, and
had seen much service, but the trained eye of the young inventor saw
that it could still be used effectively. Boomerang watched Tom, as
though aware that something unusual was about to happen.

"Heah I done gone an' 'vested mah money in dis yeah mill,"
complained Eradicate, "an' I ain't sawed up a single stick. Ef I
wasn't so kind-hearted I'd chastise dat mule wuss dan I has, dat's
what I would."

Tom said nothing. He was stooping down, looking at the gearing that
connected the tread mill with the shaft which revolved the saw.
Suddenly he uttered an exclamation,

"Rad, have you been monkeying with this machinery?" he asked.

"Me? Good land, Mistah Swift, no, sah! I wouldn't tech it. It's jest
as I got it from de man I bought it off. It worked when he had it,
but he used a hoss. It's all due to de contrariness ob Boomerang,
an' if I--"

"No, it isn't the mule's fault at all!" exclaimed Tom. "The mill is
out of gear, and tread is locked; that's all. The man you bought it
off probably did it so you could haul it along the road. I'll have
it fixed for you in a few minutes. Wait until I get some tools."

From the bag on his motor-cycle Tom got his implements. He first
unlocked the treadmill, so that the inclined platform, on which the
animal slowly walked, could revolve. No sooner had he done this than
Boomerang, feeling the slats under his hoofs moving away, started
forward. With a rattle the treadmill slid around.

"Good land o' massy! It's goin'!" cried Eradicate delightedly. "It
suah am goin'!" he added as he saw the mule, with nimble feet, send
the revolving, endless string of slats around and around. "But de
saw doan't move, Mistah Swift. Yo' am pretty smart at fixin' it as
much as yo' has, but I reckon it's too busted t' eber saw any wood.
I'se got bad luck, dat's what I has."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Tom. "The sawmill will be going in a moment.
All I have to do is to throw it into gear. See here, Rad. When you
want the saw to go you just throw this handle forward. That makes
the gears mesh."

"What's dat 'bout mush?" asked Eradicate.

"Mesh--not mush. I mean it makes the cogs fit together. See," and
Tom pressed the lever. In an instant, with a musical whirr, the saw
began revolving.

"Hurrah! Dere it goes! Golly! see de saw move!" cried the delighted
colored man. He seized a stick of wood, and in a trice it was sawed
through.

"Whoop!" yelled Eradicate. "I'm sabed now! Bless yo', Mistah Swift,
yo' suttinly am a wondah!"

"Now I'll show you how it works," went on Tom. "When you want to
stop Boomerang, you just pull this handle. That locks the tread, and
he can't move it," and, suiting the action to his words, Tom stopped
the mill. "Then," he went on, "when you want him to move, you pull
the handle this way," and he showed the darky how to do it. In a
moment the mule was moving again. Then Tom illustrated how to throw
the saw in and out of gear, and in a few minutes the sawmill was in
full operation, with a most energetic colored man feeding in logs to
be cut up into stove lengths.

"You ought to have an assistant, Rad," said Tom, after he had
watched the work for a while. "You could get more done then, and
move on to some other wood-patch."

"Dat's right, Mistah Swift, so I had. But I 'done tried, an'
couldn't git any. I ast seberal colored men, but dey'd radder
whitewash an' clean chicken coops. I guess I'll hab t' go it alone.
I ast a white man yisterday ef he wouldn't like t' pitch in an'
help, but he said he didn't like to wuk. He was a tramp, an' he had
de nerve to ask me fer money--me, a hard-wukin' coon."

"You didn't give it to him, I hope."

"No, indeedy, but he come so close to me dat I was askeered he might
take it from me, so I kept hold ob a club. He suah was a bad-lookin'
tramp, an' he kept laffin' all de while, like he was happy."

"What's that?" cried Tom, struck by the words of the colored man.
"Did he have a thick, brown beard?"

"Dat's what he had," answered Eradicate, pausing in the midst of his
work. "He suah were a funny sort ob tramp. His hands done looked
laik he neber wuked, an' he had a funny blue ring one finger, only
it wasn't a reg'lar ring, yo' know. It was pushed right inter his
skin, laik a man I seen at de circus once, all cobered wid funny
figgers."

Tom leaped to his feet.

"Which finger was the blue ring tattooed on?" he asked, and he
waited anxiously for the answer.

"Let me see, it were on de right--no, it were on de little finger ob
de left hand."

"Are you sure, Rad?"

"Suah, Mistah Swift. I took 'tic'lar notice, 'cause he carried a
stick in dat same hand."

"It must be my man--Happy Harry!" exclaimed Tom half aloud. "Which
way did he go, Rad, after he left you?"

"He went up de lake shore," replied the colored man. "He asked me if
I knowed ob an ole big house up dere, what nobody libed in, an' I
said I did. Den he left, an' I were glad ob it."

"Which house did you mean, Rad?"

"Why, dat ole mansion what General Harkness used t' lib in befo' de
wah. Dere ain't nobody libed in it fo' some years now, an' it's
deserted. Maybe a lot ob tramps stays in it, an' dat's where dis man
were goin'."

"Maybe," assented Tom, who was all excitement now. "Just where is
this old house, Rad?"

"Away up at de head ob Lake Carlopa. I uster wuk dere befo' de wah,
but it's been a good many years since quality folks libed dere. Why,
did yo' want t' see dat man, Mistah Swift?"

"Yes, Rad, I did, and very badly, too. I think he is the very person
I want. But don't say anything about it. I'm going to take a trip up
to that strange mansion. Maybe I'll get on the trail of Happy Harry
and the men who robbed me. I'm much obliged to you, Rad, for this
information. It's a good clue, I think. Strange that you should meet
the very tramp I've been searching for."

"Well, I suah am obliged to yo', Mistah Swift, fo' fixin' mah
sawmill."

"That's all right. What you told me more than pays for what I did,
Rad. Well, I'm going home now to tell dad, and then I'm going to start
out. Yesterday, you said it was, you saw Happy Harry? Well, I'll get
right after him," and leaving a somewhat surprised, but very much
delighted, colored man behind him, Tom mounted his motor-cycle and
started for home at a fast pace.




CHAPTER XXII.

THE STRANGE MANSION


"Dad, I've got a clue!" exclaimed Tom, hurrying into the house late
that afternoon, following a quick trip from where he had met
Eradicate with his sawmill. "A good clue, and I'm going to start
early in the morning to run it down."

"Wait a minute, now, Tom," cautioned his father slowly. "You know
what happens when you get excited. Nothing good was ever done in a
hurry."

"Well, I can't help being excited, dad. I think I'm on the trail of
those scoundrels. I almost wish I could start to-night."

"Suppose you tell me all about it," and Mr. Swift laid aside a
scientific book he was reading.

Whereupon Tom told of his meeting with the colored man, and what
Eradicate had said about the tramp.

"But he may not be the same Happy Harry you are looking for,"
interposed Mr. Swift. "Tramps who don't like to work, and who have a
jolly disposition, also those who ask for money and have designs
tattooed on their hands, are very common."

"Oh, but I'm sure this is the same one," declared Tom. "He wants to
stay in this neighborhood until he locates his confederates. That's
why he's hanging around. Now I have an idea that the deserted
mansion, where Eradicate used to work, and which once housed General
Harkness and his family, is the rendezvous of this gang of thieves."

"You are taking a great deal for granted, Tom."

"I don't think so, dad. I've got to assume something, and maybe I'm
wrong, but I don't think so. At any rate, I'm going to try, if
you'll let me."

"What do you mean to do?"

"I want to go to that deserted mansion and see what I can find. If I
locate the thieves, well--"

"You may run into danger."

"Then you admit I may be on the right track, dad?"

"Not at all," and Mr. Swift smiled at the quick manner in which Tom
turned the tables on him. "I admit there may be a band of tramps in
that house. Very likely there is--almost any deserted place would be
attractive to them. But they may not be the ones you seek. In fact,
I hardly see how they can be. The men who stole my model and patent
papers are wealthy. They would not be very likely to stay in
deserted houses."

"Perhaps some of the scoundrels whom they hired might, and through
them I can get on the track of the principals."

"Well, there is something in that," admitted Mr. Swift.

"Then may I go, dad?"

"I suppose so. We must leave nothing untried to get back the stolen
model and papers. But I don't want you to run any risks. If you
would only take some one with you. There's your chum, Ned Newton.
Perhaps he would go."

"No, I'd rather work it alone, dad. I'll be careful. Besides, Ned
could not get away from the bank. I may have to be gone a week, and
he has no motor-cycle. I can manage all right."

Tom was off bright and early. He had carefully laid his plans, and
had decided that he would not go direct to Pineford, which was the
nearest village to the old Harkness mansion.

"If those fellows are in hiding they will probably keep watch on who
comes to the village," thought Tom. "The arrival of some one on a
motor-cycle will be sure to be reported to them, and they may skip
out. I've got to come up from another direction, so I think I'll
circle around, and reach the mansion from the stretch of woods on
the north."

He had inquired from Eradicate as to the lay of the land, and had a
good general idea of it. He knew there was a patch of woodland on
one side of the mansion, while the other sides were open.

"I may not be able to ride through the woods," mused Tom, "but I'll
take my machine as close as I can, and walk the rest of the way.
Once I discover whether or not the gang is in the place, I'll know
what to do."

To follow out the plan he had laid down for himself meant that Tom
must take a roundabout way. It would necessitate being a whole day
on the road, before he would be near the head of Lake Carlopa, where
the Harkness house was located. The lake was a large one, and Tom
had never been to the upper end.

When he was within a few miles of Pineford, Tom took a road that
branched off and went around it. Stopping at night in a lonely
farmhouse, he pushed on the next morning, hoping to get to the woods
that night. But a puncture to one of the tires delayed him, and
after that was repaired he discovered something wrong with his
batteries. He had to go five miles out of his way to get new cells,
and it was dusk when he came to the stretch of woods which he knew
lay between him and the old mansion.

"I don't fancy starting in there at night," said Tom to himself.
"Guess I'd better stay somewhere around here until morning, and then
venture in. But the question is where to stay?"

The country was deserted, and for a mile or more he had seen no
houses. He kept on for some distance farther, the dusk falling
rapidly, and when he was about to turn back to retrace his way to
the last farmhouse he had passed, he saw a slab shanty at the side
of the road.

"That's better than nothing, provided they'll take me in for the
night," murmured Tom. "I'm going to ask, anyhow."

He found the shanty to be inhabited by an old man who made a living
burning charcoal. The place was not very attractive, but Tom did not
mind that, and finding the charcoal-burner a kindly old fellow, soon
made a bargain with him to remain all night.

Tom slept soundly, in spite of his strange surroundings, and after a
simple breakfast in the morning inquired of the old man the best way
of penetrating the forest.

"You'd best strike right along the old wood road," said the
charcoal-burner. "That leads right to the lake, and I think will
take you where you want to go. The old mansion is not far from the
lake shore."

"Near the lake, eh?" mused Tom as he started off, after thanking the
old fellow. "Now I wonder if I'd better try to get to it from the
water or the land side?"

He found it impossible to ride fast on the old wood road, and when he
judged he was so close to the lake that the noise of his motor-cycle
might be heard, he shut off the power, and walked along, pushing
it. It was hard traveling, and he felt weary, but he kept on, and
about noon was rewarded by a sight of something glittering through the
trees.

"That's the lake!" Tom exclaimed, half aloud. "I'm almost there."

A little later, having hidden his motor-cycle in a clump of bushes,
he made his way through the underbrush and stood on the shore of
Lake Carlopa. Cautiously Tom looked about him. It was getting well
on in the afternoon, and the sun was striking across the broad sheet
of water. Tom glanced up along the shore. Something amid a clump of
trees caught his eyes. It was the chimney of a house. The young
inventor walked a little distance along the lake shore. Suddenly he
saw, looming up in the forest, a large building. It needed but a
glance to show that it was falling into ruins, and had no signs of
life about it. Nor, for that matter, was there any life in the
forest around him, or on the lake that stretched out before him.

"I wonder if that can be the place?" whispered Tom, for, somehow,
the silence of the place was getting on his nerves. "It must be it,"
he went on. "It's just as Rad described it."

He stood looking at it, the sun striking full on the mysterious
mansion, hidden there amid the trees. Suddenly, as Tom looked, he
heard the "put-put" of a motor-boat. He turned to one side, and saw,
putting out from a little dock that he had not noticed before, a
small craft. It contained one man, and no sooner had the young
inventor caught a glimpse of him than he cried out:

"That's the man who jumped over our fence and escaped!"

Then, before the occupant of the boat could catch sight of him, Tom
turned and fled back into the bushes, out of view.




CHAPTER XXIII.

TOM IS PURSUED


Tom was so excited that he hardly knew what to do. His first thought
was to keep out of sight of the man in the boat, for the young
inventor did not want the criminals to suspect that he was on their
trail. To that end he ran back until he knew he could not be seen
from the lake. There he paused and peered through the bushes. He
caught a glimpse of the man in the motor-boat. The craft was making
fast time across the water.

"He didn't see me," murmured Tom. "Lucky I saw him first. Now what
had I better do?"

It was a hard question to answer. If he only had some one with whom
to consult he would have felt better, but he knew he had to rely on
himself. Tom was a resourceful lad, and he had often before been
obliged to depend on his wits. But this time very much was at stake,
and a false move might ruin everything.

"This is certainly the house," went on Tom, "and that man in the
boat is one of the fellows who helped rob me. Now the next thing to
do is to find out if the others of the gang are in the old mansion,
and, if they are, to see if dad's model and papers are there. Then
the next thing to do will be to get our things away, and I fancy
I'll have no easy job."

Well might Tom think this, for the men with whom he had to deal were
desperate characters, who had already dared much to accomplish their
ends, and who would do more before they would suffer defeat. Still,
they under-estimated the pluck of the lad who was pitted against
them.

"I might as well proceed on a certain plan, and have some system
about this affair," reasoned the lad. "Dad is a great believer in
system, so I'll lay out a plan and see how nearly I can follow it.
Let's see--what is the first thing to do?"

Tom considered a moment, going over the whole situation in his mind.
Then he went on, talking to himself alone there in the woods:

"It seems to me the first thing to do is to find out if the men are
in the house. To do that I've got to get closer and look in through
a window. Now, how to get closer?"

He considered that problem from all sides.

"It will hardly do to approach from the lake shore," he reasoned,
"for if they have a motor-boat and a dock, there must be a path from
the house to the water. If there is a path people are likely to walk
up or down it at any minute. The man in the boat might come back
unexpectedly and catch me. No, I can't risk approaching from the
lake shore. I've got to work my way up to the house by going through
the woods. That much is settled. Now to approach the house, and when
I get within seeing distance I'll settle the next point. One thing
at a time is a good rule, as dad used to say. Poor dad! I do hope I
can get his model and papers back for him."

Tom, who had been sitting on a log under a bush, staring at the
lake, arose. He was feeling rather weak and faint, and was at a loss
to account for it, until he remembered that he had had no dinner.

"And I'm not likely to get any," he remarked. "I'm not going to eat
until I see who's in that house. Maybe I won't then, and where
supper is coming from I don't know. But this is too important to be
considered in the same breath with a meal. Here goes."

Cautiously Tom made his way forward, taking care not to make too
much disturbance in the bushes. He had been on hunting trips, and
knew the value of silence in the woods. He had no paths to follow,
but he had noted the position of the sun, and though that luminary
was now sinking lower and lower in the west, he could see the gleam
of it through the trees, and knew in which direction from it lay the
deserted mansion.

Tom moved slowly, and stopped every now and then to listen. All the
sounds he heard were those made by the creatures of the woods--birds,
squirrels and rabbits. He went forward for half an hour, though
in that time he did not cover much ground, and he was just beginning
to think that the house must be near at hand when through a fringe
of bushes he saw the old mansion. It stood in the midst of what
had once been a fine park, but which was now overgrown with weeds
and tangled briars. The paths that led to the house were almost
out of sight, and the once beautiful home was partly in ruins.

"I guess I can sneak up there and take a look in one of the
windows," thought the young inventor. He was about to advance, when
he suddenly stopped. He heard some one or some thing coming around
the corner of the mansion. A moment later a man came into view, and
Tom easily recognized him as one of those who had been in the
automobile. The heart of the young inventor beat so hard that he was
afraid the man would hear it, and Tom crouched down in the bushes to
keep out of sight. The man evidently did not suspect the presence of
a stranger, for, though he cast sharp glances into the tangled
undergrowth that fringed the house like a hedge, he did not seek to
investigate further. He walked slowly on, making a circuit of the
grounds. Tom remained hidden for several minutes, and was about to
proceed again, when the man reappeared. Then Tom saw the reason for
it.

"He's on guard!" the lad said to himself. "He's doing sentry duty. I
can't approach the house when he's there."

For an instant Tom felt a bitter disappointment. He had hoped to be
able to carry out his plan as he had mapped it. Now he would have to
make a change.

"I'll have to wait until night," he thought. "Then I can sneak up
and look in. The guard won't see me after dark. But it's going to be
no fun to stay here, without anything to eat. Still, I've got to do
it."

He remained where he was in the bushes. Several times, before the
sun set, the man doing sentry duty made the circuit of the house,
and Tom noted that occasionally he was gone for a long period. He
reasoned that the man had gone into the mansion to confer with his
confederates.

"If I only knew what was going on in there," thought Tom. "Maybe,
after all, the men haven't got the model and papers here. Yet, if
they haven't, why are they staying in the old house? I must get a
look in and see what's going on. Lucky there are no shades to the
windows. I wish it would get dark."

It seemed that the sun would never go down and give place to dusk,
but finally Tom, crouching in his hiding place, saw the shadows grow
longer and longer, and finally the twilight of the woods gave place
to a density that was hard to penetrate. Tom waited some time to see
if the guard kept up the circuit, but with the approach of night the
man seemed to have gone into the house. Tom saw a light gleam out
from the lonely mansion. It came from a window on the ground floor.

"There's my chance!" exclaimed the lad, and, crawling from his
hiding place, he advanced cautiously toward it.

Tom went forward only a few feet at a time, pausing almost every
other step to listen. He heard no sounds, and was reassured. Nearer
and nearer he came to the old house. The gleam of the light fell
upon his face, and fearful that some one might be looking from the
window, he shifted his course, so as to come up from one side.
Slowly, very slowly he advanced, until he was right under the
window. Then he found that it was too high up to admit of his
looking in. He felt about until he had a stone to stand on.

Softly he drew himself up inch by inch. He could hear the murmur of
voices in the room. Now the top of his head was on a level with the
sill. A few more inches and his eyes could take in the room and the
occupants. He was scarcely breathing. Up, up he raised himself until
he could look into the apartment, and the sight which met his eyes
nearly caused him to lose his hold and topple backward. For grouped
around a table in a big room were the three men whom he had seen in
the automobile. But what attracted his attention more than the sight
of the men was an object on the table. It was the stolen model! The
men were inspecting it, and operating it, as he could see. One of
the trio had a bundle of papers in his hand, and Tom was sure they
were the ones stolen from him. But there could be no doubt about the
model of the turbine motor. There it was in plain sight. He had
tracked the thieves to their hiding place.

Then, as he watched, Tom saw one of the men produce from under the
table a box, into which the model was placed. The papers were next
put in, and a cover was nailed on. Then the men appeared to consult
among themselves.

By their gestures Tom concluded that they were debating where to
hide the box. One man pointed toward the lake, and another toward
the forest. Tom was edging himself up farther, in order to see
better, and, if possible, catch their words, when his foot slipped,
and he made a slight noise. Instantly the men turned toward the
window, but Tom had stooped down out of sight, just in time.

A moment later, however, he heard some one approaching through the
woods behind him, and a voice called out:

"What are you doing? Get away from there!"

Rapid footsteps sounded, and Tom, in a panic, turned and fled, with
an unknown pursuer after him.




CHAPTER XXIV.

UNEXPECTED HELP


Tom rushed on through the woods. The lighted room into which he had
been looking had temporarily blinded him when it came to plunging
into the darkness again, and he could not see where he was going. He
crashed full-tilt into a tree, and was thrown backward. Bruised and
cut, he picked himself up and rushed off in another direction.
Fortunately he struck into some sort of a path, probably one made by
cows, and then, as his eyes recovered their faculties, he could
dimly distinguish the trees on either side of him and avoid them.

His heart, that was beating fiercely, calmed down after his first
fright, and when he had run on for several minutes he stopped.

"That--that must--have been--the--the man--from the boat," panted
our hero, whispering to himself. "He came back and saw me. I wonder
if he's after me yet?"

Tom listened. The only sound he could hear was the trill and chirp
of the insects of the woods. The pursuit, which had lasted only a
few minutes, was over. But it might be resumed at any moment. Tom
was not safe yet, he thought, and he kept on.

"I wonder where I am? I wonder where my motor-cycle is? I wonder
what I had better do?" he asked himself.

Three big questions, and no way of settling them; Tom pulled himself
up sharply.

"I've got to think this thing out," he resumed. "They can't find me
in these woods to-night, that's sure, unless they get dogs, and
they're not likely to do that. So I'm safe that far. But that's
about all that is in my favor. I won't dare to go back to the house,
even if I could find it in this blackness, which is doubtful. It
wouldn't be safe, for they'll be on guard now. It looks as though I
was up against it. I'm afraid they may imagine the police are after
them, and go away. If they do, and take the model and papers with
them, I'll have an awful job to locate them again, and probably I
won't be able to. That's the worst of it. Here I have everything
right under my hands, and I can't do a thing. If I only had some one
to help me; some one to leave on guard while I went for the police.
I'm one against three--no, four, for the man in the boat is back.
Let's see what can I do?"

Then a sudden plan came to him.

"The lake shore!" he exclaimed, half aloud. "I'll go down there and
keep watch. If they escape they'll probably go in the boat, for they
wouldn't venture through the woods at night. That's it. I'll watch
on shore, and if they do leave in the boat--" He paused again,
undecided. "Why, if they do," he finished, "I'll sing out, and make
such a row that they'll think the whole countryside is after them.
That may drive them back, or they may drop the box containing the
papers and model, and cut for it. If they do I'll be all right. I
don't care about capturing them, if I can get dad's model back."

He felt more like himself, now that he had mapped out another plan.

"The first thing to do is to locate the lake," reasoned Tom. "Let's
see; I ran in a straight line away from the house--that is, as
nearly straight as I could. Now if I turn around and go straight
back, bearing off a little to the left, I ought to come to the
water. I'll do it."

But it was not so easy as Tom imagined, and several times he found
himself in the midst of almost impenetrable bushes. He kept on,
however, and soon had the satisfaction of emerging from the woods
out on the shore of the lake. Then, having gotten his bearings as
well as he could in the darkness, he moved down until he was near
the deserted house. The light was still showing from the window, and
Tom judged by this that the men had not taken fright and fled.

"I suppose I could sneak down and set the motor-boat adrift," he
argued. "That would prevent them leaving by way of the lake, anyhow.
That's what I'll do! I'll cut off one means of escape. I'll set the
boat adrift!"

Very cautiously he advanced toward where he had seen the small craft
put out. He was on his guard, for he feared the men would be on the
watch, but he reached the dock in safety, and was loosening the rope
that tied the boat to the little wharf when another thought came to
him.

"Why set this boat adrift?" he reasoned. "It is too good a boat to
treat that way, and, besides, it will make a good place for me to
spend the rest of the night. I've got to stay around here until
morning, and then I'll see if I can't get help. I'll just
appropriate this boat for my own use. They have dad's model, and
I'll take their boat."

Softly he got into the craft, and with an oar which was kept in it
to propel it in case the engine gave out, he poled it along the
shore of the lake until he was some distance away from the dock.

That afternoon he had seen a secluded place along the shore, a spot
where overhanging bushes made a good hiding place, and for this he
headed the craft. A little later it was completely out of sight, and
Tom stretched out on the cushioned seats, pulling a tarpaulin over
him. There he prepared to spend the rest of the night.

"They can't get away except through the woods now, which I don't
believe they'll do," he thought, "and this is better for me than
staying out under a tree. I'm glad I thought of it."

The youth, naturally, did not pass a very comfortable night, though
his bed was not a half bad one. He fell into uneasy dozes, only to
arouse, thinking the men in the old mansion were trying to escape.
Then he would sit up and listen, but he could hear nothing. It
seemed as if morning would never come, but at length the stars began
to fade, and the sky seemed overcast with a filmy, white veil. Tom
sat up, rubbed his smarting eyes, and stretched his cramped limbs.

"Oh, for a hot cup of coffee!" he exclaimed. "But not for mine,
until I land these chaps where they belong. Now the question is, how
can I get help to capture them?"

His hunger was forgotten in this. He stepped from the boat to a
secluded spot on the shore. The craft, he noted, was well hidden.

"I've got to go back to where I left my motor-cycle, jump on that,
and ride for aid," he reasoned. "Maybe I can get the charcoal-burner
to go for me, while I come back and stand guard. I guess that would
be the best plan. I certainly ought to be on hand, for there is no
telling when these fellows will skip out with the model, if they
haven't gone already. I hate to leave, yet I've got to. It's the
only way. I wish I'd done as dad suggested, and brought help. But
it's too late for that. Well, I'm off."

Tom took a last look at the motor-boat, which was a fine one. He
wished it was his. Then he struck through the woods. He had his
bearings now, and was soon at the place where he had left his
machine. It had not been disturbed. He caught a glimpse of the old
mansion on his way out of the woods. There appeared to be no one
stirring about it.

"I hope my birds haven't flown!" he exclaimed, and the thought gave
him such uneasiness that he put it from him. Pushing his heavy
machine ahead of him until he came to a good road, he mounted it,
and was soon at the charcoal-burner's shack. There came no answer to
his knock, and Tom pushed open the door. The old man was not in. Tom
could not send him for help.

"My luck seems to be against me!" he murmured. "But I can get
something to eat here, anyhow. I'm almost starved!"

He found the kitchen utensils, and made some coffee, also frying
some bacon and eggs. Then, feeling much refreshed, and having left
on the table some money to pay for the inroad he had made on the
victuals, he started to go outside.

As our hero stepped to the door he was greeted by a savage growl
that made him start in alarm.

"A dog!" he mused. "I didn't know there was one around."

He looked outside and there, to his dismay, saw a big,
savage-appearing bulldog standing close to where he had left his
motor-cycle. The animal had been sniffing suspiciously at the machine.

"Good dog!" called Tom. "Come here!"

But the bulldog did not come. Instead the beast stood still, showed
his teeth to Tom and growled in a low tone.

"Wonder if the owner can be near?" mused the young inventor. "That
dog won't let me get my machine, I am afraid."

Tom spoke to the animal again and again the dog growled and showed
his teeth. He next made a move as if to leap into the house, and Tom
quickly stepped back and banged shut the door.

"Well, if this isn't the worst yet!" cried the youth to himself.
"Here, just at the time I want to be off, I must be held up by such
a brute as that outside. Wonder how long he'll keep me a prisoner?"

Tom went to a window and peered out. No person had appeared and the
lad rightly surmised that the bulldog had come to the cottage alone.
The beast appeared to be hungry, and this gave Tom a sudden idea.

"Maybe if I feed him, he'll forget that I am around and give me a
chance to get away," he reasoned. "Guess I had better try that dodge
on him."

Tom looked around the cottage and at last found the remains of a
chicken dinner the owner had left behind. He picked up some of the
bones and called the bulldog. The animal came up rather
suspiciously. Tom threw him one bone, which he proceeded to crunch
up vigorously.

"He's hungry right enough," mused Tom. "I guess he'd like to sample
my leg. But he's not going to do it--not if I can help it."

At the back of the cottage was a little shed, the door to which
stood open. Tom threw a bone near to the door of this shed and then
managed to throw another bone inside the place. The bulldog found
the first bone and then disappeared after the second.

"Now is my time, I guess," the young inventor told himself, and
watching his chance, he ran from the cottage toward his motor-cycle.
He made no noise and quickly shoved the machine into the roadway.
Just as he turned on the power the bulldog came out of the shed,
barking furiously.

"You've missed it!" said Tom grimly as the machine started, and
quickly the cottage and the bulldog were left behind. The road was
rough for a short distance and he had to pay strict attention to
what he was doing.

"I've got to ride to the nearest village," he said. "It's a long
distance, and, in the meanwhile, the men may escape. But I can't do
anything else. I dare not tackle them alone, and there is no telling
when the charcoal-burner may come back. I've got to make speed,
that's all."

Out on the main road the lad sent his machine ahead at a fast pace.
He was fairly humming along when, suddenly, from around a curve in
the highway he heard the "honk-honk" of an automobile horn. For an
instant his heart failed him.

"I wonder if those are the thieves? Maybe they have left the house,
and are in their auto!" he whispered as he slowed down his machine.

The automobile appeared to have halted. As Tom came nearer the turn
he heard voices. At the sound of one he started. The voice
exclaimed:

"Bless my spectacles! What's wrong now? I thought that when I got this
automobile I would enjoy life, but it's as bad as my motor-cycle was
for going wrong! Bless my very existence, but has anything happened?"

"Mr. Damon!" exclaimed Tom, for he recognized the eccentric
individual of whom he had obtained the motor-cycle.

The next moment Tom was in sight of a big touring car, containing,
not only Mr. Damon, whom Tom recognized at once, but three other
gentlemen.

"Oh, Mr. Damon," cried Tom, "will you help me capture a gang of
thieves? They are in a deserted mansion in the woods, and they have
one of my father's patent models! Will you help me, Mr. Damon?"

"Why, bless my top-knots," exclaimed the odd gentleman. "If it isn't
Tom Swift, the young inventor! Bless my very happiness! There's my
motor-cycle, too! Help you? Why, of course we will. Bless my
shoe-leather! Of course we'll help you!"




CHAPTER XXV.

THE CAPTURE--GOOD-BY


Tom's story was soon told, and Mr. Damon quickly explained to his
friends in the automobile how he had first made the acquaintance of
the young inventor.

"But how does it happen that you are trusting yourself in a car like
this?" asked Tom. "I thought you were done with gasolene machines,
Mr. Damon."

"I thought so, too, Tom, but, bless my batteries, my doctor insisted
that I must get out in the open air. I'm too stout to walk, and I
can't run. The only solution was in an automobile, for I never would
dream of a motor-cycle. I wonder that one of mine hasn't run away
with you and killed you. But there! My automobile is nearly as bad.
We went along very nicely yesterday, and now, just when I have a
party of friends out, something goes wrong. Bless my liver! I do
seem to have the worst luck!"

Tom lost no time in looking for the trouble. He found it in the
ignition, and soon had it fixed. Then a sort of council of war was
held.

"Do you think those scoundrels are there yet?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I hope so," answered Tom.

"So do I," went on the odd character. "Bless my soul, but I want a
chance to pummel them. Come, gentlemen, let's be moving. Will you
ride with us, Tom Swift, or on that dangerous motor-cycle?"

"I think I'll stick to my machine, Mr. Damon. I can easily keep up
with you."

"Very well. Then we'll get along. We'll proceed until we get close
to the old mansion, and then some of us will go down to the lake
shore, and the rest of us will surround the house. We'll catch the
villains red-handed, and I hope we bag that tramp among them."

"I hardly think he is there," said Tom.

In a short time the auto and the motor-cycle had carried the
respective riders to the road through the woods. There the machines
were left, and the party proceeded on foot. Tom had a revolver with
him, and one member of Mr. Damon's party also had a small one, more
to scare dogs than for any other purpose. Tom gave his weapon to one
of the men, and cut a stout stick for himself, an example followed
by those who had no firearms.

"A club for mine!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "The less I have to do with
machinery the better I like it. Now, Tom Swift is just the other way
around," he explained to his friends.

Cautiously they approached the house, and when within seeing
distance of it they paused for a consultation. There seemed to be no
one stirring about the old mansion, and Tom was fearful lest the men
had left. But this could not be determined until they came closer.
Two of Mr. Damon's friends elected to go down to the shore of the
lake and prevent any escape in that direction, while the others,
including Tom, were to approach from the wood side. When the two who
were to form the water attacking party were ready, one of them was
to fire his revolver as a signal. Then Tom, Mr. Damon and the others
would rush in.

The young inventor, Mr. Damon, and his friend, whom he addressed as
Mr. Benson, went as close to the house as they considered prudent.
Then, screening themselves in the bushes, they waited. They
conversed in whispers, Tom giving more details of his experience
with the patent thieves.

Suddenly the silence of the woods was broken by some one advancing
through the underbrush.

"Bless my gaiters, some one is coming!" exclaimed Mr. Damon in a
hoarse whisper. "Can that be Munson or Dwight coming back?" He
referred to his two friends who had gone to the lake.

"Or perhaps the fellows are escaping," suggested Mr. Benson.
"Suppose we take a look."

At that moment the person approaching, whoever he was, began to
sing. Tom started.

"I'll wager that's Happy Harry, the tramp!" he exclaimed. "I know
his voice."

Cautiously Tom peered over the screen of bushes.

"Who is it?" asked Mr. Damon.

"It's Happy Harry!" said Tom. "We'll get them all, now. He's going
up to the house."

They watched the tramp. All unconscious of the eyes of the men and
boy in the bushes, he kept on. Presently the door of the house
opened, and a man came out. Tom recognized him as Anson Morse--the
person who had dropped the telegram.

"Say, Burke," called the man at the door, "have you taken the
motor-boat?"

"Motor-boat? No," answered the tramp. "I just came here. I've had a
hard time--nearly got caught in Swift's house the other night by
that cub of a boy. Is the boat gone?"

"Yes. Appleson came back in it last night and saw some one looking
in the window, but we thought it was only a farmer and chased him
away. This morning the boat's gone. I thought maybe you had taken it
for a joke."

"Not a bit of it! Something's wrong!" exclaimed Happy Harry. "We'd
better light out. I think the police are after us. That young Swift
is too sharp for my liking. We'd better skip. I don't believe that
was a farmer who looked in the window. Tell the others, get the
stuff, and we'll leave this locality."

"They're here still," whispered Tom. "That's good!"

"I wonder if Munson and Dwight are at the lake yet?" asked Mr.
Damon. "They ought to be--"

At that instant a pistol shot rang out. The tramp, after a hasty
glance around, started on the run for the house. The man in the
doorway sprang out. Soon two others joined him.

"Who fired that shot?" cried Morse.

"Come on, Tom!" cried Mr. Damon, grabbing up his club and springing
from the bushes. "Our friends have arrived!" The young inventor and
Mr. Benson followed him.

No sooner had they come into the open space in front of the house
than they were seen. At the same instant, from the rear, in the
direction of the lake, came Mr. Munson and Mr. Dwight.

"We're caught!" cried Happy Harry.

He made a dash for the house, just as a man, carrying a box, rushed
out.

"There it is! The model and papers are in that box!" cried Tom.
"Don't let them get away with it!"

The criminals were taken by surprise. With leveled weapons the
attacking party closed in on them. Mr. Damon raised his club
threateningly.

"Surrender! Surrender!" he cried. "We have you! Bless my stars, but
you're captured! Surrender!"

"It certainly looks so," admitted Anson Morse. "I guess they have
us, boys."

The man with the box made a sudden dash toward the woods, but Tom
was watching him. In an instant he sprang at him, and landed on the
fellow's back. The two went down in a heap, and when Tom arose he
had possession of the precious box.

"I have it! I have it!" he cried. "I've got dad's model back!"

The man who had had possession of the box quickly arose, and, before
any one could stop him, darted into the bushes.

"After him! Catch him! Bless my hat-band, stop him!" shouted Mr.
Damon.

Instinctively his friends turned to pursue the fugitive, forgetting,
for the instant, the other criminals. The men were quick to take
advantage of this, and in a moment had disappeared in the dense
woods. Nor could any trace be found of the one with whom Tom had
struggled.

"Pshaw! They got away from us!" cried Mr. Damon regretfully. "Let's
see if we can't catch them. Come on, we'll organize a posse and run
them down." He was eager for the chase, but his companions dissuaded
him. Tom had what he wanted, and he knew that his father would
prefer not to prosecute the men. The lad opened the box, and saw
that the model and papers were safe.

"Let those fellows go," advised the young inventor, and Mr. Damon
reluctantly agreed to this. "I guess we've seen the last of them,"
added the youth, but he and Mr. Swift had not, for the criminals
made further trouble, which will be told of in the second volume of
this series, to be called "Tom Swift and His Motor-Boat; or, The
Rivals of Lake Carlopa." In that our hero will be met in adventures
even more thrilling than those already related, and Andy Foger, who
so nearly ran Tom down in the automobile, will have a part in them.

"Now," said Mr. Damon, after it had been ascertained that no one was
injured, and that the box contained all of value that had been
stolen, "I suppose you are anxious to get back home, Tom, aren't
you? Will you let me take you in my car? Bless my spark plug, but
I'd like to have you along in case of another accident!"

The lad politely declined, however, and, with the valuable model and
papers safe on his motor-cycle, he started for Shopton. Arriving at
the first village after leaving the woods, Tom telephoned the good
news to his father, and that afternoon was safely at home, to the
delight of Mr. Swift and Mrs. Baggert.

The inventor lost no time in fully protecting his invention by
patents. As for the unprincipled men who made an effort to secure
it, they had so covered up their tracks that there was no way of
prosecuting them, nor could any action be held against Smeak &
Katch, the unscrupulous lawyers.

"Well," remarked Mr. Swift to Tom, a few nights after the recovery
of the model, "your motor-cycle certainly did us good service. Had
it not been for it I might never have gotten back my invention."

"Yes, it did come in handy," agreed the young inventor. "There's
that motor-boat, too. I wish I had it. I don't believe those fellows
will ever come back for it. I turned it over to the county
authorities, and they take charge of it for a while. I certainly had
some queer adventures since I got this machine from Mr. Damon,"
concluded Tom. I think my readers will agree with him.

THE END


TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR-BOAT

Or

The Rivals of Lake Carlopa


By

VICTOR APPLETON




CONTENTS

     I  A Motor-boat Auction
    II  Some Lively Bidding
   III  A Timely Warning
    IV  Tom And Andy Clash
     V  A Test Of Speed
    VI  Towing Some Girls
   VII  A Brush With Andy
  VIII  Off On A Trip
    IX  Mr. Swift Is Alarmed
     X  A Cry For Help
    XI  A Quick Run
   XII  Suspicious Characters
  XIII  Tom In Danger
   XIV  The ARROW Disappears
    XV  A Damaging Statement
   XVI  Still On The Search
  XVII  "There She Is!"
 XVIII  The Pursuit
   XIX  A Quiet Cruise
    XX  News Of A Robbery
   XXI  The Balloon On Fire
  XXII  The Rescue
 XXIII  Plans For An Airship
  XXIV  The Mystery Solved
   XXV  Winning A Race




CHAPTER I

A MOTOR-BOAT AUCTION


"Where are you going, Tom?" asked Mr. Barton Swift of his son as the
young man was slowly pushing his motor-cycle out of the yard toward the
country road.  "You look as though you had some object in view."

"So I have, dad.  I'm going over to Lanton."

"To Lanton?  What for?"

"I want to have a look at that motor-boat."

"Which boat is that, Tom? I don't recall your speaking about a boat
over at Lanton.  What do you want to look at it for?"

"It's the motor-boat those fellows had who tried to get away with your
turbine model invention, dad.  The one they used at the old General
Harkness mansion, in the woods near the lake, and the same boat that
fellow used when he got away from me the day I was chasing him here."

"Oh, yes, I remember now.  But what is the boat doing over at Lanton?"

"That's where it belongs.  It's the property of Mr. Bently Hastings.
The thieves stole it from him, and when they ran away from the old
mansion, the time Mr. Damon and I raided the place, they left the boat
on the lake.  I turned it over to the county authorities, and they
found out it belonged to Mr. Hastings.  He has it back now, but I
understand it's somewhat damaged, and he wants to get rid of it.  He's
going to sell it at auction to-day, and I thought I'd go over and take
a look at it.  You see--"

"Yes, I see, Tom," exclaimed Mr. Swift with a laugh.  "I see what
you're aiming at.  You want a motor-boat, and you're going all around
Robin Hood's barn to get at it."

"No, dad, I only--"

"Oh, I know you, Tom, my lad!" interrupted the inventor, shaking his
finger at his son, who seemed somewhat confused.  "You have a nice
rowing skiff and a sailboat, yet you are hankering for a motor-boat.
Come now, own up.  Aren't you?"

"Well, dad, a motor-boat certainly would go fine on Lake Carlopa.
There's plenty of room to speed her, and I wonder there aren't more of
them.  I was going to see what Mr. Hastings' boat would sell for, but I
didn't exactly think of buying it' Still--"

"But you wouldn't buy a damaged boat, would you?"

"It isn't much damaged," and in his eagerness the young inventor (for
Tom Swift had taken out several patents) stood his motor-cycle up
against the fence and came closer to his father.  "It's only slightly
damaged," he went on. "I can easily fix it.  I looked it all over
before I gave it in charge of the authorities, and it's certainly a
fine boat. It's worth nine hundred dollars--or it was when it was new."

"That's a good deal of money for a boat," and Mr. Swift looked serious,
for though he was well off, he was inclined to be conservative.

"Oh, I shouldn't think of paying that much.  In fact, dad, I really had
no idea of bidding at the auction.  I only thought I'd go over and get
an idea of what the boat might sell for.  Perhaps some day--"

Tom paused.  Since his father had begun to question him some new plans
had come into the lad's head.  He looked at his parent and saw a smile
beginning to work around the corners of Mr. Swift's lips.  There was
also a humorous look in the eyes of the older inventor.  He understood
boys fairly well, even if he only had one, and he knew Tom perfectly.

"Would you really like to make a bid on that boat Tom?" he asked.

"Would I, dad? Well--" The youth did not finish, but his father knew
what he meant.

"I suppose a motor-boat would be a nice thing to have on Lake Carlopa,"
went on Mr. Swift musingly.  "You and I could take frequent trips in
it.  It isn't like a motor-cycle, only useful for one.  What do you
suppose the boat will go for, Tom?"

"I hardly know.  Not a high price, I believe, for motor-boats are so
new on our lake that few persons will take a chance on them.  But if
Mr. Hastings is getting another, he will not be so particular about
insisting on a high price for the old one.  Then, too, the fact that it
is damaged will help to keep the price down, though I know I can easily
put it in good shape.  I would like to make a bid, if you think it's
all right."

"Well, I guess you may, Tom, if you really want it.  You have money of
your own and a motor-boat is not a bad investment.  What do you think
ought to be the limit?"

"Would you consider a hundred and fifty dollars too high?"

Mr. Swift looked at Tom critically.  He was plainly going over several
matters in his mind, and not the least of them was the pluck his son
had shown in getting back some valuable papers and a model from a gang
of thieves.  The lad certainly was entitled to some reward, and to
allow him to get a boat might properly be part of it.

"I think you could safely go as high as two hundred dollars, Tom," said
Mr. Swift at length.  "That would be my limit on a damaged boat for it
might be better to pay a little more and get a new one.  However, use
your own judgment, but don't go over two hundred.  So the thieves who
made so much trouble for me stole that boat from Mr. Hastings, eh?"

"Yes, and they didn't take much care of it either.  They damaged the
engine, but the hull is in good shape.  I'm ever so glad you'll let me
bid on it.  I'll start right off.  The auction is at ten o'clock and I
haven't more than time to get there."

"Now be careful how you bid.  Don't raise your own figures, as I've
sometimes seen women, and men too, do in their excitement.  Somebody
may go over your head; and if he does, let them.  If you get the boat
I'll be very glad on your account.  But don't bring any of Anson
Morse's gang back in it with you.  I've seen enough of them."

"I'll not dad!" cried Tom as he trundled his motor-cycle out of the
gate and into the country road that led to the village of Shopton,
where he lived, and to Lanton, where the auction was to be held.  The
young inventor had not gone far before he turned back, leaving his
machine standing on the side path.

"What's the matter?" asked his father, who had started toward one of
several machine shops on the premises--shops where Mr. Swift and his
son did inventive work.

"Guess I'd better get a blank check and some money," replied Tom as he
entered the house.  "I'll need to pay a deposit if I secure the boat."

"That's so.  Well, good luck," and with his mind busy on a plan for a
new kind of storage battery, the inventor went on to his workroom.  Tom
got some cash and his checkbook from a small safe he owned and was soon
speeding over the road to Lanton, his motor-cycle making quite a cloud
of dust.  While he is thus hurrying along to the auction I will tell
you something about him.

Tom Swift, son of Barton Swift, lived with his father and a motherly
housekeeper, Mrs. Baggert, in a large house on the outskirts of the
town of Shopton, in New York State.  Mr. Swift had acquired
considerable wealth from his many inventions and patents, but he did
not give up working out his ideas simply because he had plenty of
money.  Tom followed in the footsteps of his parent and had already
taken out several patents.

Shortly before this story opens the youth had become possessed of a
motor-cycle in a peculiar fashion.  As told in the first volume of this
series, entitled "Tom Swift and His Motor-cycle," Tom was riding to the
town of Mansburg on an errand for his father one day when he was nearly
run down by a motorcyclist.  A little later the same motorcyclist, who
was a Mr. Wakefield Damon, of Waterfield, collided with a tree near
Tom's home and was severely cut and bruised, the machine being broken.
Tom and his father cared for the injured rider, and Mr. Damon, who was
an eccentric individual, was so disheartened by his attempts to ride
the motor-cycle that he sold it to Tom for fifty dollars, though it had
cost much more.

About the same time that Tom bought the motor-cycle a firm of rascally
lawyers, Smeak & Katch by name, had, in conjunction with several men,
made an attempt to get control of an invention of a turbine motor
perfected by Mr. Swift.  The men, who were Ferguson Appleson, Anson
Morse, Wilson Featherton, alias Simpson, and Jake Burke, alias Happy
Harry, who sometimes disguised himself as a tramp, tried several times
to steal the model.

Their anxiety to get it was due to the fact that they had invested a
large sum in a turbine motor invented by another man, but their motor
would not work and they sought to steal Mr. Swift's.  Tom was sent to
Albany on his motor-cycle to deliver the model and some valuable papers
to Mr. Crawford, of the law firm of Reid & Crawford, of Washington,
attorneys for Mr. Swift.  Mr. Crawford had an errand in Albany and had
agreed to meet Tom there with the model.

But, on the way, Tom was attacked by the gang of unscrupulous men and
the model was stolen.  He was assaulted and carried far away in an
automobile.  In an attempt to capture the gang in a deserted mansion,
in the woods on the shore of Lake Carlopa, Tom was aided by Mr. Damon,
of whom he had purchased the motor-cycle.  The men escaped, however,
and nothing could be done to punish them.

Tom was thinking of the exciting scenes he had passed through about a
month previous as he spun along the road leading to Lanton.

"I hope I don't meet Happy Harry or any of his gang to-day," mused the
lad as he turned on a little more power to enable his machine to mount
a hill.  "I don't believe they'll attend the auction, though.  It would
be too risky for them."

As Tom swung along at a rapid pace he heard, behind him, the puffing of
an automobile, with the muffler cut out.  He turned and cast a hasty
glance behind.

"I hope that ain't Andy Foger or any of his cronies," he said to
himself.  "He might try to run me down just for spite.  He generally
rushes along with the muffler open so as to attract attention and make
folks think he has a racing car."

It was not Andy, however, as Tom saw a little later, as a man passed
him in a big touring car.  Andy Foger, as my readers will recollect,
was a red-haired, squinty-eyed lad with plenty of money and not much
else.  He and his cronies, including Sam Snedecker, nearly ran Tom down
one day, when the latter was on his bicycle, as told in the first
volume of this series.  Andy had been off on a tour with his chums
during the time when Tom was having such strenuous adventures and had
recently returned.

"If I can only get that boat," mused Tom as he swung back into the
middle of the road after the auto had passed him, "I certainly will
have lots of fun.  I'll make a week's tour of Lake Carlopa and take dad
and Ned Newton with me." Ned was Tom's most particular chum, but as
young Newton was employed in the Shopton bank, the lad did not have
much time for pleasure.  Lake Carlopa was a large body of water, and it
would take a moderately powered boat several days to make a complete
circuit of the shore, so cut up into bays and inlets was it.

In about an hour Tom was at Lanton, and as he neared the home of Mr.
Hastings, which was on the shore of the lake, he saw quite a throng
going down toward the boathouse.

"There'll be some lively bidding," thought Tom as he got off his
machine and pushed it ahead of him through the drive and down toward
the river.  "I hope they don't go above two hundred dollars, though."

"Get out the way there!" called a sudden voice, and looking back, Tom
saw that an automobile had crept up silently behind him.  In it were
Andy Foger and Sam Snedecker.  "Why don't you get out the way?"
petulantly demanded the red-haired lad.

"Because I don't choose to," replied Tom calmly, knowing that Andy
would never dare to speed up his machine on the slope leading down to
the lake.

"Go ahead, bump him!" the young inventor heard Sam whisper.

"You'd better try it, if you want to get the best trouncing you ever
had!" cried Tom hotly.

"Hu! I s'pose you think you're going to bid on the boat?" sneered Andy.

"Is there any law against it?" asked Tom.

"Hu! Well, you'll not get it.  I'm going to take that boat," retorted
the squint-eyed bully.  "Dad gave me the money to get it."

"All right," answered Tom non-committally.  "Go ahead.  It's a free
country."

He stood his motor-cycle up against a tree and went toward a group of
persons who were surrounding the auctioneer.  The time had arrived to
start the sale.  As Tom edged in closer he brushed against a man who
looked at him sharply.  The lad was just wondering if he had ever seen
the individual before, as there seemed to be something strangely
familiar about him, when the man turned quickly away, as if afraid of
being recognized.

"That's odd," thought Tom, but he had no further time for speculation,
as the auctioneer was mounting on a soapbox and had begun to address
the gathering.




CHAPTER II

SOME LIVELY BIDDING


"Attention, people!" cried the auctioneer.  "Give me your attention for
a few minutes, and we will proceed with the business in hand.  As you
all know, I am about to dispose of a fine motor-boat, the property of
Mr. Bently Hastings.  The reason for disposing of it at auction is
known to most of you, but for the benefit of those who do not, I will
briefly state them.  The boat was stolen by a gang of thieves and
recovered recently through the efforts of a young man, Thomas Swift,
son of Barton Swift, our fellow-townsman, of Shopton." At that moment
the auctioneer, Jacob Wood, caught sight of Tom in the press, and,
looking directly at the lad, continued:

"I understand that young Mr. Swift is here to-day, and I hope he
intends to bid on this boat.  If he does, the bidding will be lively,
for Tom Swift is a lively young man.  I wish I could say that some of
the men who stole the boat were here to-day."

The auctioneer paused and there were some murmurs from those in the
throng as to why such a wish should be uttered.  Tom felt some one
moving near him, and, looking around, he saw the same man with whom he
had come in contact before.  The person seemed desirous of getting out
on the edge of the crowd, and Tom felt a return of his vague
suspicions.  He looked closely at the fellow, but could trace no
resemblance to any of the men who had so daringly stolen his father's
model.

"The reason I wish they were here to-day," went on Mr. Wood, "is that
the men did some slight damage to the boat, and if they were here
to-day we would make them pay for it.  However, the damage is slight
and can easily be repaired.  I mention that, as Mr. Hastings desired me
to.  Now we will proceed with the bidding, and I will say that an
opportunity will first be given all to examine the boat.  Perhaps Tom
Swift will give us his opinion on the state it is in as we know he is
well qualified to talk about machinery."

All eyes were turned on Tom, for many knew him.

"Humph! I guess I know as much about boats and motors as he does,"
sneered Andy Foger.  "He isn't the only one in this crowd! Why didn't
the auctioneer ask me?"

"Keep quiet," begged Sam Snedecker.  "People are laughing at you, Andy."

"I don't care if they are," muttered the sandy haired youth.  "Tom
Swift needn't think he's everything."

"If you will come down to the dock," went on the auctioneer, "you can
all see the boat, and I would be glad to have young Mr. Swift give us
the benefit of his advice."

The throng trooped down to the lake, and, blushing somewhat, Tom told
what was the matter with the motor and how it could be fixed.  It was
noticed that there was less enthusiasm over the matter than there had
been, for certainly the engine, rusty and out of order as it was, did
not present an attractive sight.  Tom noted that the man, who had acted
so strangely, did not come down to the dock.

"Guess he can't be much interested in the motor," decided Tom.

"Now then, if it's all the same to you folks, I'll proceed with the
auction here," went on Mr. Wood.  "You can all see the boat from here.
It is, as you see, a regular family launch and will carry twelve
persons comfortably.  With a canopy fitted to it a person could cruise
all about the lake and stay out over night, for you could sleep on the
seat cushions.  It is twenty-one feet in length and has a
five-and-a-half-foot beam, the design being what is known as a
compromise stern.  The motor is a double-cylinder two-cycle one, of ten
horsepower.  It has a float-feed carburetor, mechanical oiler, and the
ignition system is the jump-spark--the best for this style of motor.
The boat will make ten miles an hour, with twelve in, and, of course,
more than that with a lighter load.  A good deal will depend on the way
the motor is managed.

"Now, as you know, Mr. Hastings wishes to dispose of the boat partly
because he does not wish to repair it and partly because he has a newer
and larger one.  The craft, which is named CARLOPA by the way, cost
originally nine hundred dollars.  It could not be purchased new to-day,
in many places, for a thousand.  Now what am I offered in its present
condition? Will any one make an offer?  Will you give me five hundred
dollars?"

The auctioneer paused and looked critically at the throng.  Several
persons smiled.  Tom looked worried.  He had no idea that the price
would start so high.

"Well, perhaps that is a bit stiff," went on Mr. Wood.  "Shall we say
four hundred dollars? Come now, I'm sure it's worth four hundred.
Who'll start it at four hundred?"

No one would, and the auctioneer descended to three hundred, then to
two and finally, as if impatient, he called out:

"Well, will any one start at fifty dollars?"

Instantly there were several cries of "I will!"

"I thought you would," went on the auctioneer.  "Now we will get down
to work.  I'm offered fifty dollars for this twenty-one foot, ten
horsepower family launch.  Will any one make it sixty?"

"Sixty!" called out Andy Foger in a shrill voice.  Several turned to
look at him.

"I didn't know he was going to bid," thought Tom.  "He may go above me.
He's got plenty of money, and, while I have too, I'm not going to pay
too much for a damaged boat."

"Sixty I'm bid, sixty--sixty!" cried Mr. Wood in a sing-song tone,
"who'll make it seventy?"

"Sixty-five!" spoke a quiet voice at Tom's elbow, and he turned to see
the mysterious man who had joined the crowd at the edge of the lake.

"Sixty-five from the gentleman in the white straw hat!" called Mr. Wood
with a smile at his wit, for there were many men wearing white straw
hats, the day being a warm one in June.

"Here, who's bidding above me?" exclaimed Andy, as if it was against
the law.

"I guess you'll find a number going ahead of you, my young friend,"
remarked the auctioneer.  "Will you have the goodness not to interrupt
me, except when you want to bid?"

"Well, I offered sixty," said the squint-eyed bully, while his crony,
Sam Snedecker, was vainly, pulling at his sleeve.

"I know you did, and this gentleman went above you.  If you want to bid
more you can do so.  I'm offered sixty-five, sixty-five I'm offered for
this boat.  Will any one make it seventy-five?"

Mr. Wood looked at Tom, and our hero, thinking it was time for him to
make a bid, offered seventy. "Seventy from Tom Swift!" cried the
auctioneer. "There is a lad who knows a motor-boat from stem to stern,
if those are the right words. I don't know much about boats except what
I'm told, but Tom Swift does. Now, if he bids, you people ought to know
that it's all right. I'm bid seventy--seventy I'm bid. Will any one
make it eighty?"

"Eighty!" exclaimed Andy Foger after a whispered conference with Sam.
"I know as much about boats as Tom Swift.  I'll make it eighty."

"No side remarks. I'll do most of the talking. You just bid, young
man," remarked Mr. Wood. "I have eighty bid for this boat--eighty
dollars. Why, my friends, I can't understand this.  I ought to have it
up to three hundred dollars, at least. But I thank you all the same. We
are coming on. I'm bid eighty--"

"Ninety!" exclaimed the quiet man at Tom's elbow.  He was continually
fingering his upper lip, as though he had a mustache there, but his
face was clean-shaven.  He looked around nervously as he spoke.

"Ninety!" called out the auctioneer.

"Ninety-five!" returned Tom.  Andy Foger scowled at him, but the young
inventor only smiled.  It was evident that the bully did not relish
being bid against.  He and his crony whispered together again.

"One hundred!" called Andy, as if no one would dare go above that.

"I'm offered an even hundred," resumed Mr. Wood.  "We are certainly
coming on.  A hundred I am bid, a hundred--a hundred--a hundred--"

"And five," said the strange man hastily, and he seemed to choke as he
uttered the words.

"Oh, come now; we ought to have at least ten-dollar bids from now on,"
suggested Mr. Wood.  "Won't you make it a hundred and ten?" The
auctioneer looked directly at the man, who seemed to shrink back into
the crowd.  He shook his head, cast a sort of despairing look at the
boat and hurried away.

"That's queer," murmured Tom.  "I guess that was his limit, yet if he
wanted the boat badly that wasn't a high price."

"Who's going ahead of me?" demanded Andy in loud tones.

"Keep quiet!" urged Sam.  "We may get it yet."

"Yes, don't make so many remarks," counseled the auctioneer.  "I'm bid
a hundred and five.  Will any one make it a hundred and twenty-five?"

Tom wondered why the man had not remained to see if his bid was
accepted, for no one raised it at once, but he hurried off and did not
look back.  Tom took a sudden resolve.

"A hundred and twenty-five!" he called out.

"That's what I like to hear," exclaimed Mr. Wood.  "Now we are doing
business.  A hundred and twenty-five from Tom Swift.  Will any one
offer me fifty?"

Andy and Sam seemed to be having some dispute.

"Let's make him quit right now," suggested Andy in a hoarse whisper.

"You can't," declared Sam'

"Yes, I can.  I'll go up to my limit right now."

"And some one will go above you---maybe Tom will," was Sam's retort.

"I don't believe he can afford to," Andy came back with.  "I'm going to
call his bluffs.  I believe he's only bidding to make others think he
wants it.  I don't believe he'll buy it."

Tom heard what was said, but did not reply.  The auctioneer was calling
monotonously: "I'm bid a hundred and twenty-five--twenty-five.  Will
any one make it fifty?"

"A hundred and fifty!" sang out Andy, and all eyes were directed toward
him.

"Sixty!" said Tom quietly.

"Here, you--" began the red-haired lad.  "You--"

"That will do!" exclaimed the auctioneer sternly.  "I am offered a
hundred and sixty.  Now who will give me an advance? I want to get the
boat up to two hundred, and then the real bidding will begin."

Tom's heart sank.  He hoped it would be some time before a two hundred
dollar offer would be heard.  As for Andy Foger, he was almost
speechless with rage.  He shook off the restraining arm of Sam, and,
worming his way to the front of the throng, exclaimed:

"I'll give a hundred and seventy-five dollars for that boat!"

"Good!" cried the auctioneer.  "That's the way to talk.  I'm offered a
hundred and seventy-five."

"Eighty," said Tom quietly, though his heart was beating fast.

"Well, of all--" began Andy, but Sam Snedecker dragged him back.

"You haven't got any more money," said the bully's crony.  "Better stop
now."

"I will not! I'm going home for more," declared Andy.  "I must have
that boat."

"It will be sold when you get back," said Sam.

"Haven't you got any money you can lend me?" inquired the squint-eyed
one, scowling in Tom's direction.  "No, not a bit.  There, some one
raised Tom's bid."

At that moment a man in the crowd offered a hundred and eighty-one
dollars.

"Small amounts thankfully received," said Mr. Wood with a laugh.  Then
the bidding became lively, a number making one-dollar advances.

The price got up to one hundred and ninety-five dollars and there it
hung for several minutes, despite the eloquence of Mr. Wood, who tried
by all his persuasive powers to get a substantial advance.  But every
one seemed afraid to bid.  As for the young inventor, he was in a
quandary.  He could only offer five dollars more, and, if he bid it in
a lump, some one might go to two hundred and five, and he would not get
the boat.  He wished he had secured permission from his father to go
higher, yet he knew that as a fair proposition two hundred dollars was
about all the motor-boat in its present condition was worth, at least
to him.  Then he made a sudden resolve.  He thought he might as well
have the suspense over.

"Two hundred dollars!" he called boldly.

"I'm offered two hundred!" repeated Mr. Wood.  "That is something like
it.  Now who will raise that?"

There was a moment of silence.  Then the auctioneer swung into an
enthusiastic description of the boat.  He begged for an advance, but
none was made, though Tom's heart seemed in his throat, so afraid was
he that he would not get the CARLOPA.

"Two hundred--two hundred!" droned on Mr. Wood. "I am offered two
hundred. Will any of you go any higher?" He paused a moment, and Tom's
heart beat harder than ever. "If not," resumed the speaker, "I will
declare the bidding closed. Are you all done?  Once--twice--three
times. Two hundred dollars. Going--going--gone!" He clapped his hands.
"The boat is sold to Thomas Swift for two hundred dollars. If he'll
step up I'll take his money."

There was a laugh as Tom, blushingly, advanced.  He passed Andy Foger,
who had worked his way over near him.

"You got the boat," sneered the bully, "and I s'pose you think you got
ahead of me."

"Keep quiet!" begged Sam.

"I won't!" exclaimed Andy.  "He outbid me just out of spite, and I'll
get even with him.  You see if I don't!"

Tom looked Andy Foger straight in the eyes, but did not answer, and the
red-haired youth turned aside, followed by his crony, and started
toward his automobile.

"I congratulate you on your bargain," said Mr. Wood as Tom proceeded to
make out a check.  He gave little thought to the threat Andy Foger had
made, but the time was coming when he was to remember it well.




CHAPTER III

A TIMELY WARNING


"Well, are you satisfied with your bargain, Tom?" asked Mr. Wood when
the formalities about transferring the ownership of the motor-boat had
been completed.

"Oh, yes, I calculated to pay just what I did."

"I'm glad you're satisfied, for Mr. Hastings told me to be sure the
purchaser was satisfied.  Here he comes now.  I guess he wasn't at the
auction."

An elderly gentleman was approaching Mr. Wood and Tom.  Most of the
throng was dispersing, but the young inventor noticed that Andy Foger
and Sam Snedecker stood to one side, regarding him closely.

"So you got my boat," remarked the former owner of the craft.  "I hope
you will be able to fix it up."

"Oh, I think I shall," answered the new owner of the CARLOPA.  "If I
can't, father will help me."

"Yes, you have an advantage there.  Are you going to keep the same
name?" and Mr. Hastings seemed quite interested in what answer the lad
would make.

"I think not," replied Tom.  "It's a good name, but I want something
that tells more what a fast boat it is, for I'm going to make some
changes that will increase the speed."

"That's a good idea. Call it the Swift."

"Folks would say I was stuck up if I did that," retorted the youth
quickly.  "I think I shall call it the ARROW.  That's a good, short
name, and--"

"It's certainly speedy," interrupted Mr. Hastings.  "Well now, since
you're not going to use the name CARLOPA, would you mind if I took it
for my new boat? I have a fancy for it."

"Not in the least," said Tom.  "Don't you want the letters from each
side of the bow to put on your new craft?"

"It's very kind of you to offer them, and, since you will have no need
for them, I'll be glad to take them off."

"Come down to my boat," invited Tom, using the word "my" with a proper
pride, "and I'll take off the brass letters.  I have a screw driver in
my motor-cycle tool bag."

As the former and present owners of the ARROW (which is the name by
which I shall hereafter designate Tom's motor-boat) walked down toward
the dock where it was moored the young inventor gave a startled cry.

"What's the matter?" asked Mr. Hastings.

"That man! See him at my motor-boat?" cried Tom.  He pointed to the
craft in the lake.  A man was in the cockpit and seemed to be doing
something to the forward bulkhead, which closed off the compartment
holding the gasoline tank.

"Who is he?" asked Mr. Hastings, while Tom started on a run toward the
boat.

"I don't know.  Some man who bid on the boat at the auction, but who
didn't go high enough," answered the lad.  As he neared the craft the
man sprang out, ran along the lakeshore for a short distance and then
disappeared amid the bushes which bordered the estate of Mr. Hastings.
Tom hurriedly entered the ARROW.

"Did he do any damage?" asked Mr. Hastings.

"I guess he didn't have time," responded Tom.  "But he was tampering
with the lock on the door of the forward compartment.  What's in there?"

"Nothing but the gasoline tank.  I keep the bulkhead sliding door
locked on general principles.  I can't imagine what the fellow would
want to open it for.  There's nothing of value in there.  Perhaps he
isn't right in his head.  Was he a tramp?"

"No, he was well dressed but he seemed very nervous during the auction,
as if he was disappointed not to have secured the boat.  Yet what could
he want in that compartment? Have you the key to the lock, Mr.
Hastings?"

"Yes, it belongs to you now, Mr. Swift," and the former owner handed it
to Tom, who quickly unlocked the compartment.  He slid back the door
and peered within, but all he saw was the big galvanized tank.

"Nothing in there he could want," commented the former owner of the
craft.

"No," agreed Tom in a low voice.  "I don't see what he wanted to open
the door for." But the time was to come, and not far off, when Tom was
to discover quite a mystery connected with the forward compartment of
his boat, and the solution of it was fated to bring him into no little
danger.

"It certainly is odd," went on Mr. Hastings when, after Tom had secured
the screw driver from his motor-cycle tool bag, he aided the lad in
removing the letters from the bow of the boat "Are you sure you don't
know the man?"

"No, I never saw him before.  At first I thought his voice sounded like
one of the members of the Happy Harry gang, but when I looked squarely
at him I could not see a bit of resemblance.  Besides, that gang would
not venture again into this neighborhood."

"No, I imagine not.  Perhaps he was only a curious, meddlesome person.
I have frequently been bothered by such individuals.  They want to see
all the working parts of an automobile or motor-boat, and they don't
care what damage they do by investigating."

Tom did not reply, but he was pretty certain that the man in question
had more of an object than mere curiosity in tampering with the boat.
However, he could discover no solution just then, and he proceeded with
the work of taking off the letters.

"What are you going to do with your boat, now that you have it?" asked
Mr. Hastings.  "Can you run it down to your dock in the condition in
which it is now?"

"No, I shall have to go back home, get some tools and fix up the motor.
It will take half a day, at least.  I will come back this afternoon
and, have the boat at my house by night.  That is if I may leave it at
your dock here."

"Certainly, as long as you like."

The young inventor had many things to think about as he rode toward
home, and though he was somewhat puzzled over the actions of the
stranger, he forgot about that in anticipating the pleasure he would
have when the motor-boat was in running order.

"I'll take dad off on a cruise about the lake," he decided.  "He needs
a rest, for he's been working hard and worrying over the theft of the
turbine motor model.  I'll take Ned Newton for some rides, too, and he
can bring his camera along and get a lot of pictures.  Oh, I'll have
some jolly sport this summer!"

Tom was riding swiftly along a quiet country road and was approaching a
steep hill, which he could not see until he was close to it, owing to a
sharp turn.

As he was about to swing around it and coast swiftly down the steep
declivity he was startled by hearing a voice calling to him from the
bushes at the side of the road.

"Hold on, dar! hold on, Mistah Swift!" cried a colored man, suddenly
popping into view.  "Doan't go down dat hill."

"Why, it's Eradicate Sampson!" exclaimed Tom, quickly shutting off the
power and applying the brakes.  "What's the matter, Rad? Why shouldn't
I go down that hill?"

"Beca'se, Mistah Swift, dere's a pow'ful monstrous tree trunk right
across de road at a place whar yo' cain't see it till yo' gits right on
top ob it.  Ef yo' done hit dat ar tree on yo' lickity-split machine,
yo' suah would land in kingdom come.  Doan't go down dat hill!"

Tom leaped off his machine and approached the colored man.  Eradicate
Sampson did odd jobs in the neighborhood of Shopton, and more than once
Tom had done him favors in repairing his lawn mower or his wood-sawing
machine.  In turn Eradicate had given Tom a valuable clue as to the
hiding place of the model thieves.

"How'd the log get across the road, Rad?" asked Tom.

"I dunno, Mistah Swift.  I see it when I come along wid mah mule,
Boomerang, an' I tried t' git it outer de way, but I couldn't.  Den I
left Boomerang an' mah wagon at de foot ob de hill an' I come up heah
t' git a long pole t' pry de log outer de way.  I didn't t'ink nobody
would come along, case dis road ain't much trabeled."

"I took it for a short cut," said the lad.  "Come on, let's take a look
at the log."

Leaving his machine at the top of the slope, the young inventor
accompanied the colored man 'down the hill.  At the foot of it, well
hidden from sight of any one who might come riding down, was a big log.
It was all the way across the road.

"That never fell there," exclaimed Tom in some excitement.  "That never
rolled off a load of logs, even if there had been one along, which
there wasn't.  That log was put there!"

"Does yo' t'ink dat, Mistah Swift?" asked Eradicate, his eyes getting
big.

"I certainly do, and, if you hadn't warned me, I might have been
killed."

"Oh, I heard yo' lickity-split machine chug-chuggin' along when I were
in de bushes, lookin' for a pryin' pole, an' I hurried out to warn yo.
I knowed I could leave Boomerang safe, 'case he's asleep."

"I'm glad you did warn me," went on the youth solemnly.  Then, as he
went closer to the log, he uttered an exclamation.

"That has been dragged here by an automobile!" he cried.  "It's been
done on purpose to injure some one.  Come on, Rad, let's see if we
can't find out who did it."

Something on the ground caught Tom's eye.  He stooped and picked up a
nickle-plated wrench.

"This may come in handy as evidence," he murmured.




CHAPTER IV

TOM AND ANDY CLASH


Even a casual observer could have told that an auto had had some part
in dragging the log to the place where it blockaded the road.  In the
dust were many marks of the big rubber tires and even the imprint of a
rope, which had been used to tow the tree trunk.

"What fo' yo' t'ink any one put dat log dere?" asked the colored man as
he followed Tom.  Boomerang, the mule, so called because Eradicate said
you never could tell what he was going to do, opened his eyes lazily
and closed them again.  "I don't know why, Rad, unless they wanted to
wreck an automobile or a wagon.  Maybe tramps did it for spite."

"Maybe some one done it to make yo' hab trouble, Mistah Swift."

"No, I hardly think so.  I don't know of any one who would want to make
trouble for me, and how would they know I was coming this way--"

Tom suddenly checked himself.  The memory of the scene at the auction
came back to him and he recalled what Andy Foger had said about
"'getting even."

"Which way did dat auto go?" resumed Eradicate.

"It came from down the road," answered Tom, not completing the sentence
he had left unfinished.  "They dragged the log up to the foot of the
hill and left it.  Then the auto went down this way." It was
comparatively easy, for a lad of such sharp observation as was Tom, to
trace the movements of the vehicle.

"Den if it's down heah, maybe we cotch 'em," suggested the colored man.

The young inventor did not answer at once.  He was hurrying along, his
eyes on the telltale marks.  He had proceeded some distance from the
place where the log was when he uttered a cry.  At the same moment he
hurried from the road toward a thick clump of bushes that were in the
ditch alongside of the highway.  Reaching them, he parted the leaves
and called:

"Here's the auto, Rad!"

The colored man ran up, his eyes wider open than ever.  There, hidden
amid the bushes, was a large touring car.

"Whose am dat?" asked Eradicate.

Tom did not answer.  He penetrated the underbrush, noting where the
broken branches had been bent upright after the forced entrance of the
car, the better to hide it.  The young inventor was, seeking some clew
to discover the owner of the machine.  To this end he climbed up in the
tonneau and was looking about when some one burst in through the screen
of bushes and a voice cried: "Here, you get out of my car!"

"Oh, is it your car, Andy Foger?" asked Tom calmly as he recognized his
squint-eyed rival.  "I was just beginning to think it was.  Allow me to
return your wrench," and he held out the one he had picked up near the
log.  "The next time you drag trees across the road," went on the lad
in the tonneau, facing the angry and dismayed Andy, "I'd advise you to
post a notice at the top of the hill, so persons riding down will not
be injured."

"Notice--road--hill--logs!" stammered Andy, turning red under his
freckles.

"That's what I said," replied Tom coolly.

"I--I didn't have anything to do with putting a log across any road,"
mumbled the bully.  "I--I've been off toward the creek."

"Have you?" asked Tom with a peculiar smile.

"I thought you might have been looking for the wrench you dropped near
the log.  You should be more careful and so should Sam Snedecker, who's
hiding outside the bushes," went on our hero, for he had caught sight
of the form of Andy's crony.  "I--I told him not to do it!" exclaimed
Sam as he came from his hiding place.

"Shut up!" exclaimed Andy desperately.

"Oh, I think I know your secret," continued the young inventor.  "You
wanted to get even with me for outbidding you on the motor-boat.  You
watched which road I took, and then, in your auto, you came a shorter
way, ahead of me.  You hauled the log across the foot of the hill,
hoping, I suppose, that my machine would be broken.  But, let me tell
you, it was a risky trick.  Not only might I have been killed, but so
would whoever else who happened to drive down the slope over the log,
whether in a wagon or automobile.  Fortunately Eradicate discovered it
in time and warned me.  I ought to have you arrested, but you're not
worth it.  A good thrashing is what such sneaks as you deserve!"

"You haven't got any evidence against us," sneered Andy confidently,
his old bravado coming back.

"I have all I want," replied Tom.  "You needn't worry.  I'm not going
to tell the police.  But you've got to do one thing or I'll make you
sorry you ever tried this trick.  Eradicate will help me, so don't
think you're going to escape."

"You get out of my automobile!" demanded Andy.  "I'll have you arrested
if you don't."

"I'll get out because I'm ready to, but not on account of your
threats," retorted Mr. Swift's son.  "Here's your wrench.  Now I want
you and Sam to start up this machine and haul that log out of the way."

"S'pose I won't do it?" snapped Andy.

"Then I'll cause your arrest, besides thrashing you into the bargain!
You can take your choice of removing the log so travelers can pass or
having a good hiding, you and Sam.  Eradicate, you take Sam and I'll
tackle Andy."

"Don't you dare touch me!" cried the bully, but there was a whine in
his tones.

"You let me alone or I'll tell my father!" added Sam.  "I--I didn't
have nothin' to do with it, anyhow.  I told Andy it would make trouble,
but he made me help him."

"Say, what's the matter with you?" demanded Andy indignantly of his
crony.  "Do you want to--"

"I wish I'd never come with you," went on Sam, who was beginning to be
frightened.

"Come now.  Start up that machine and haul the log out of the way,"
demanded Tom again.

"I won't do it!" retorted the red-haired lad impudently.

"Yes, you will," insisted our hero, and he took a step toward the
bully.  They were out of the clump of bushes now and in the roadside
ditch.  "You let me alone," almost screamed Andy, and in his baffled
rage he rushed at Tom, aiming a blow.

The young inventor quickly stepped to one side, and, as the bully
passed him, Tom sent out a neat left-hander.  Andy Foger went down in a
heap on the grass.




CHAPTER V

A TEST OF SPEED


Whether Tom or Andy was the most surprised at the happening would be
hard to say.  The former had not meant to hit so hard and he certainly
did not intend to knock the squint-eyed youth down.  The latter's fall
was due, as much as anything, to his senseless, rushing tactics and to
the fact that he slipped on the green grass.  The bully was up in a
moment, however, but he knew better than to try conclusions with Tom
again.  Instead he stood out of reach and spluttered:

"You just wait, Tom Swift! You just wait!"

"Well, I'm waiting," responded the other calmly.

"I'll get even with you," went on Andy.  "You think you're smart
because you got ahead of me, but I'll get square!"

"Look here!" burst out the young inventor determinedly, taking a step
toward his antagonist, at which Andy quickly retreated, "I don't want
any more of that talk from you, Andy Foger.  That's twice you've made
threats against me to-day.  You put that log across the road, and if
you try anything like it for your second attempt I'll make you wish you
hadn't.  That applies to you, too, Sam," he added, glancing at the
other lad.

"I--I ain't gone' to do nothin'," declared Sam.

"I told Andy not to put that tree--"

"Keep still, can't you!" shouted the bully.  "Come on.  We'll get even
with him, that's all," he muttered as he went back into the bushes
where the auto was.  Andy cranked up and he and his crony getting into
the car were about to start off.

"Hold on!" cried Tom.  "You'll take that log from across the road or
I'll have you arrested for obstructing traffic, and that's a serious
offense."

"I'm goin' to take it away!" growled Andy.  "Give a fellow a show can't
you?"

He cast an ugly look at Tom, but the latter only smiled.  It was no
easy task for Sam and Andy to pull the log out of the way, as they
could hardly lift it to slip the rope under.  But they finally managed
it, and, by the power of the car, hauled it to one side.  Then they
speed off.

"I 'clar t' gracious, dem young fellers am most as mean an' contrary as
mah mule Boomerang am sometimes," observed Eradicate.  "Only Boomerang
ain't quite so mean as dat."

"I should hope not, Rad," observed Tom.  "I'm ever so much obliged for
your warning.  I guess I'll be getting, home now.  Come around next
week; we have some work for you."

"'Deed an' I will," replied the colored man.  "I'll come around an'
eradicate all de dirt on yo' place, Mistah Swift.  Yais, sah, I's
Eradicate by name, and dat's my perfession--eradicatin' dirt.  Much
obleeged, I'll call around.  Giddap, Boomerang!"

The mule lazily flicked his ears, but did not stir, and Tom, knowing
the process of arousing the animal would take some time, hurried up the
hill to where he had left his motor-cycle.  Eradicate was still engaged
on the task of trying to arouse his steed to a sense of its duty when
the young inventor flashed by on his way home.

"So now you own a broken motor-boat," observed Mr. Swift when Tom had
related the circumstances of the auction.  "Well, now you have it, what
are you going to do with it?"

"Fix it, first of all," replied his son.  "It needs considerable
tinkering up, but nothing but what I can do, if you'll help me."

"Of course I will.  Do you think you can get any speed out of it?"

"Well, I'm not so anxious for speed.  I want a good, comfortable boat,
and the ARROW will be that.  I've named it, you see.  I'm going back to
Lanton this afternoon, take some tools along, and repair it so I can
run the boat over to here.  Then I'll get at it and fix it up.  I've
got a plan for you, dad."

"What is it?" asked the inventor, his rather tired face lighting up
with interest.

"I'm going to take you on a vacation trip."

"A vacation trip?"

"Yes, you need a rest.  You've been working too hard over that
gyroscope invention."

"Yes, Tom, I think I have," admitted Mr. Swift.  "But I am very much
interested in it, and I think I can get it to work.  If I do it will
make a great difference in the control of aeroplanes.  It will make
them more stable and able to fly in almost any wind.  But I certainly have
puzzled my brains over some features of it.  However, I don't quite see
what you mean."

"You need a rest, dad," said Mr. Swift's son kindly.  "I want you to
forget all about patents, invention, machinery and even the gyroscope
for a week or two.  When I get my motor-boat in shape I'm going to take
you and Ned Newton up the lake for a cruise.  We can camp out, or, if
we had to, we could sleep in the boat.  I'm going to put a canopy on it
and arrange some bunks.  It will do you good and perhaps new ideas for
your gyroscope may come to you after a rest."

"Perhaps they will, Tom.  I am certainly tired enough to need a
vacation.  It's very kind of you to think of me in connection with your
boat.  But if you're going to get it this afternoon you'd better start
if you expect to get back by night.  I think Mrs. Baggert has dinner
ready."

After the meal Tom selected a number of tools from his own particular
machine shop and carried them down to the dock on the lake, where his
two small boats were tied.

"Aren't you going back on your motor-cycle?" asked his father.

"No, Dad, I'm going to row over to Lanton, and, if I can get the ARROW
fixed, I'll tow my rowboat back."

"Very well, then you won't be in any danger from Andy Foger.  I must
speak to his father about him."

"No, dad, don't," exclaimed the young inventor quickly.  "I can fight
my own battles with Andy.  I don't fancy he will bother me again right
away."

Tom found it more of a task than he had anticipated to get the motor in
shape to run the ARROW back under her own power.  The magneto was out
of order and the batteries needed renewing, while the spark coil had
short-circuited and took considerable time to adjust.  But by using
some new dry cells, which Mr. Hastings gave him, and cutting out the
magneto, or small dynamo which produces the spark that exploded the
gasoline in the cylinders, Tom soon had a fine, "fat" hot spark from
the auxiliary ignition system.  Then, adjusting the timer and throttle
on the engine and seeing that the gasoline tank was filled, the lad
started up his motor.  Mr. Hastings helped him, but after a few turns
of the flywheel there were no explosions.  Finally, after the
carburetor (which is the device where gasoline is mixed with air to
produce an explosive mixture) had been adjusted, the motor started off
as if it had intended to do so all the while and was only taking its
time about it.

"The machine doesn't run as smooth as it ought to," commented Mr.
Hastings.  "No, it needs a thorough overhauling," agreed the owner of
the ARROW.  "I'll get at it to-morrow," and with that he swung out into
the lake, towing his rowboat after him.

"A motor-boat of my own!" exulted Tom as he twirled the steering wheel
and noted how readily the craft answered her helm.  "This is great!"

He steered down the lake and then, turning around, went up it a mile or
more before heading for his own dock, as he wanted to see how the
engine behaved.

"With some changes and adjustments I can make this a speedy boat,"
thought Tom.  "I'll get right at it.  I shouldn't wonder if I could
make a good showing against Mr. Hastings' new CARLOPA, though his
boat's got four cylinders and mine has but two."

The lad was proceeding leisurely along the lakeshore, near his home,
with the motor throttled down to test it at low speed, when he heard
some one shout.  Looking toward the bank, Tom saw a man waving his
hands.

"I wonder what he wants?" thought our hero as he put the wheel over to
send his craft to shore.  He heard a moment later, for the man on the
bank cried:

"I say, my young friend, do you know anything about automobiles?  Of
course you do or you wouldn't be running a motor-boat.  Bless my very
existence, but I'm in trouble!  My machine has stopped on a lonely road
and I can't seem to get it started.  I happened to hear your boat and I
came here to hail you.  Bless my coat-pockets but I am in trouble!  Can
you help me?  Bless my soul and gizzard!"

"Mr. Damon!" exclaimed Tom, shutting off the power, for he was now near
shore.  "Of course I'll help you, Mr. Damon," for the young inventor
had recognized the eccentric man of whom he had purchased the
motor-cycle and who had helped him in rounding up the thieves.

"Why, bless my shoe-laces, if it isn't Tom Swift!" exclaimed Mr. Damon,
who seemed very fond of calling down blessings upon himself or upon
articles of his dress or person.

"Yes! I'm here," admitted Tom with a laugh.

"And in a motor-boat, too! Bless my pocketbook, but did that run away
with some one who sold it to you cheap?"

"No, not exactly," and the lad explained how he had come into
possession of it.  By this time he was ashore and had tied the ARROW to
an overhanging tree.  Then Tom proceeded to where Mr. Damon had left
his stalled automobile.  The eccentric man was wealthy and his
physician had instructed him to ride about in the car for his health.
Tom soon located the trouble.  The carburetor had become clogged, and
it was soon in working order again.

"Well, now that you have a boat, I don't suppose you will be riding
about the country so much," commented Mr. Damon as he got into his car.
"Bless my spark-plug! But if you ever get over to Waterfield, where I
live, come and see me.  It's handy to get to by water."

"I'll come some day," promised the lad.

"Bless my hat band, but I hope so," went on the eccentric individual as
he prepared to start his car.

Tom completed the remainder of the trip to his house without incident
and his father came down to the dock to see the motor-boat.  He agreed
with his son that it was a bargain and that it could easily be put in
fine shape.

The youth spent all the next day and part of the following working on
the craft.  He overhauled the ignition system, which was the jump-spark
style, cleaned the magneto and adjusted the gasoline and compression
taps so that they fitted better.  Then he readjusted the rudder lines,
tightening them on the steering wheel, and looked over the piping from
the gasoline tank.

The tank was in the forward compartment, and, upon inspecting this, the
lad concluded to change the plan by which the big galvanized iron box
was held in place.  He took out the old wooden braces and set them
closer together, putting in a few new ones.

"The tank will not vibrate so when I'm going at full speed," he
explained to his father.

"Is that where the strange man was tampering with the lock the day of
the auction?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Yes, but I don't see what he could want in this compartment, do you
dad?"

The inventor got into the boat and looked carefully into the rather
dark space where the tank fitted.  He went over every inch of it, and,
pointing to one of the thick wooden blocks that supported the tank,
asked:

"Did you bore that hole in there, Tom?"

"No, it was there before I touched the braces.  But it isn't a hole, or
rather, someone bored it and stopped it up again.  It doesn't weaken
the brace any."

"No, I suppose not.  I was just wondering whether that was one of the
new blocks or an old one."

"Oh, an old one.  I'm going to paint them, too, so in case the water
leaks in or the gasoline leaks out the wood won't be affected.  A
gasoline tank should vibrate as little as possible, if you don't want
it to leak.  I guess I'll paint the whole interior of this compartment
white, then I can see away into the far corners of it."

"I think that's a good idea," commented Mr. Swift.

It was four days after his purchase of the boat before Tom was ready to
make a long trip in it.  Up to that time he had gone on short spins not
far from the dock, in order to test the engine adjustment.  The lad
found it was working very well, but he decided with a new kind of spark
plugs for the two cylinders that he could get more speed out of it.
Finally the forward compartment was painted and a general overhauling
given the hull and Tom was ready to put his boat to a good test.

"Come on, Ned," he said to his chum early one evening after Mr. Swift
had said he was too tired to go out on a trial run.  "We'll see what
the ARROW will do now."

From the time Tom started up the motor it was evident that the boat was
going through the water at a rapid rate.  For a mile or more the two
lads speeded along, enjoying it hugely.  Then Ned exclaimed:

"Something's coming behind us."

Tom turned his head and looked.  Then he called out:

"It's Mr. Hastings in his new CARLOPA.  I wonder if he wants a race?"

"Guess he'd have it all his own way," suggested Ned.

"Oh, I don't know.  I can get a little more speed out of my boat."

Tom waited until the former owner of the ARROW was up to him.

"Want a race?" asked Mr. Hastings good-naturedly.

"Sure!" agreed Tom, and he shoved the timer ahead to produce quicker
explosions.

The ARROW seemed to leap forward and for a moment was ahead of the
CARLOPA, but with a motion of his hand to the spark lever Mr. Hastings
also increased his speed.  For a moment the two boats were on even
terms and then the larger and newer one forged ahead.  Tom had expected
it, but he was a little disappointed.

"That's doing first rate," complimented Mr. Hastings as he passed them.
"Better than I was ever able to make her do even when she was new, Tom."

This made the present owner of the ARROW feel somewhat consoled.  He
and Ned ran on for a few miles, the CARLOPA in the meanwhile
disappearing from view around a bend.  Then Tom and his chum turned
around and made for the Swift dock.

"She certainly is a dandy!" declared Ned.  "I wish I had one like it."

"Oh, I intend that you shall have plenty of rides in this," went on his
friend.  "When you get your vacation, you and dad and I are going on a
tour," and he explained his plan, which, it is needless to say, met
with Ned's hearty approval.

Just before going to bed, some hours later, Tom decided to go down to
the dock to make sure he had shut off the gasoline cock leading from
the tank of his boat to the motor.  It was a calm, early summer night,
with a new moon giving a little light, and the lad went down to the
lake in his slippers.  As he neared the boathouse he heard a noise.

"Water rat," he murmured, "or maybe muskrats.  I must set some traps."

As Tom entered the boathouse he started back in alarm, for a bright
light flashed up, almost in his eyes.

"Who's here?" he cried, and at that moment someone sprang out of his
motor-boat, scrambled into a rowing craft which the youth could dimly
make out in front of the dock and began to pull away quickly.

"Hold on there!" cried the young inventor. "Who are you?  What do you
want?  Come back here!"

The person in the 'coat returned no answer.  With his heart doing beats
over-time Tom lighted a lantern and made a hasty examination of the
ARROW.  It did not appear to have been harmed, but a glance showed that
the door of the gasoline compartment had been unlocked and was open.
Tom jumped down into his craft.

"Some one has been at that compartment again!" he murmured.  "I wonder
if it was the same man who acted so suspiciously at the auction?  What
can his object be, anyhow?"

The next moment he uttered an exclamation of startled surprise and
picked up something from the bottom of the boat.  It was a bunch of
keys, with a tag attached, bearing the owner's name.

"Andy Foger!" murmured Tom.  "So this is, how he was trying to get
even!  Maybe he started to put a hole in the tank or in my boat."




CHAPTER VI

TOWING SOME GIRLS


With a sense of anger mingled with an apprehension lest some harm
should have been done to his craft, the owner of the ARROW went
carefully over it.  He could find nothing wrong.  The engine was all
right and all that appeared to have been accomplished by the unbidden
visitor was the opening of the locked forward compartment.  That this
had been done by one of the many keys on Andy Foger's ring was evident.

"Now what could have been his object?" mused Tom.  "I should think if
he wanted to put a hole in the boat he would have done it amidships,
where the water would have a better chance to come in, or perhaps he
wanted to flood it with gasoline and--"

The idea of fire was in Tom's mind, and he did not finish his
half-completed thought.

"That may have been it," he resumed after a hasty examination of the
gasoline tank, to make sure there were no leaks in it.  "To get even
with me for outbidding him on the boat, Andy may have wanted to destroy
the ARROW.  Well, of all the mean tricks, that's about the limit!  But
wait until I see him.  I've got evidence against him," and Tom looked
at the key ring.  "I could almost have him arrested for this."

Going outside the boathouse, Tom stood on the edge of the dock and
peered into the darkness.  He could hear the faint sound of someone
rowing across the lake, but there was no light.

"He had one of those electric flash lanterns," decided Tom.  "If I
hadn't found his keys, I might have thought it was Happy Harry instead
of Andy."

The young inventor went back into the house after carefully locking the
boat compartment and detaching from the engine an electrical device,
without which the motor in the ARROW could not be started.

"That will prevent them from running away with my boat, anyhow,"
decided Tom.  "And I'll tell Garret Jackson to keep a sharp watch
to-night." Jackson was the engineer at Mr. Swift's workshop.

Tom told his father of the happening and Mr. Swift was properly
indignant.  He wanted to go at once to see Mr. Foger and complain of
Andy's act, but Tom counseled waiting.

"I'll attend to Andy myself," said the young inventor.  "He's getting
desperate, I guess, or he wouldn't try to set the place on fire.  But
wait until I show him these keys."

Bright and early the next morning the owner of the motor-boat was down
to the dock inspecting it.  The engineer, who had been on watch part of
the night, reported that there had been no disturbance, and Tom found
everything all right.  "I wonder if I'd better go over and accuse Andy
now or wait until I see him and spring this evidence on him?" thought
our hero.  Then he decided it would be better to wait.  He took the
ARROW out after breakfast, his father going on a short spin with him.

"But I must go back now and work on my gyroscope invention," said Mr.
Swift when about two hours had been spent on the lake.  "I am making
good progress with it."

"You need a vacation," decided Tom, "I'll be ready to take you and Ned
in about two weeks.  He will have two weeks off then and, we'll have
some glorious times together."

That afternoon Tom put some new style spark plugs in the cylinders of
his motor and found that he had considerably increased the revolutions
of the engine, due to a better explosion being obtained.  He also made
some minor adjustments and the next day he went out alone for a long
run.

Heading up the lake, Tom was soon in sight of a popular excursion
resort that was frequently visited by church and Sunday-school
organizations in the vicinity of Shopton.  The lad saw a number of
rowing craft and a small motor-boat circling around opposite the resort
and remarked: "There must be a picnic at the grove to-day.  Guess I'll
run up and take a look."

The lad was soon in the midst of quite a flotilla of rowboats, most of
them manned by pretty girls or in charge of boys who were giving
sisters (their own or some other chap's) a trip on the water.  Tom
throttled his boat down to slow speed and looked with pleasure on the
pretty scene.  His boat attracted considerable attention, for motor
craft were not numerous on Lake Carlopa.

As our hero passed a boat, containing three very pretty young ladies,
Tom heard one of them exclaim:

"There he is now!  That's Tom Swift."

Something in the tones of the voice attracted his attention.  He turned
and saw a brown-eyed girl smiling at him.  She bowed and asked,
blushing the while:

"Well, have you caught any more runaway horses lately?"

"Runaway horses--why--what?  Oh, it's Miss Nestor!" exclaimed the lad,
recognizing the young lady whose steed he had frightened one day when
he was on his bicycle.  As told in the first volume of this series, the
horse had run away, being alarmed at the flashing of Tom's wheel, and
Miss Mary Nestor, of Mansburg, was in grave danger.

"So you've given up the bicycle for the motor-boat," went on the young
lady.

"Yes," replied Tom with a smile, shutting off the power, "and I haven't
had a chance to save any girls since I've had it."

The two boats had drifted close together, and Miss Nestor introduced
her two companions to Tom.

"Don't you want to come in and take a ride?" he asked.

"Is it safe?" asked Jennie Haddon, one of the trio.

"Of course it is, Jennie, or he wouldn't be out in it," said Miss
Nestor hastily.  "Come on, let's get in.  I'm just dying for a
motor-boat ride."

"What will we do with our boat?" asked Katie Carson.

"Oh, I can tow that," replied the youth.  "Get right in and I'll take
you all around the lake."

"Not too far," stipulated the girl who had figured in the runaway.  "We
must be back for lunch, which will be served in about an hour.  Our
church and Sunday-school are having a picnic."

"Maybe Mr. Swift will come and have some lunch with us," suggested Miss
Carson, blushing prettily.

"Nothing would give me greater pleasure," answered Tom, and then he
laughed at his formal reply, the girls joining in.

"We'd be glad to have you," added Miss Haddon.  "Oh!" she suddenly
screamed, "the boat's tipping over!"

"Oh, no," Tom hastened to assure her, coming, to the side to help her
in.  "It just tilts a bit, with the weight of so many on one side.  It
couldn't capsize if it tried."

In another moment the three were in the roomy cockpit and Tom had made
the empty rowboat fast to the stern.  He was about to start up when
from another boat, containing two little girls and two slightly larger
boys, came a plaintive cry:

"Oh, mister, give us a ride!"

"Sure!" agreed Tom pleasantly.  "Just fasten your boat to the other
rowboat and I'll tow you."

One of the boys did this, and then, with three pretty girls as his
companions in the ARROW and towing the two boats, Tom started off.

The girls were very much interested in the craft and asked all sorts of
questions about how the engine operated.  Tom explained as clearly as
he could how the gasoline exploded in the cylinders, about the electric
spark and about the propeller.  Then, when he had finished, Miss Haddon
remarked naively:

"Oh, Mr. Swift, you've explained it beautifully, and I'm sure if our
teacher in school made things as clear as you have that I could get
along fine.  I understand all about it, except I don't see what makes
the engine go."

"Oh," said Tom faintly, and he wondering what would be the best remark
to make under the circumstances, when Miss Nestor created a diversion
by looking at her watch and exclaiming:

"Oh, girls, it's lunch time!  We must go ashore.  Will you kindly put
about, Mr. Swift--I hope that is the proper term--and--land us--is that
right?" and she looked archly at Tom.

"That's perfectly right," he admitted with a laugh and a glance into
the girl's brown eyes.  "I'll put you ashore at once," and he headed
for a small dock.

"And come yourself to take lunch with us, added Miss Haddon.

"I'm afraid I might be in the way," stammered Tom.  "I--I have a pretty
good appetite, and--"

"I suppose you think that girls on a picnic don't take much lunch,"
finished Miss Nestor.  "But I assure you that we have plenty, and that
you will be very welcome," she added warmly.

"Yes, and I'd like to have him explain over again how the engine
works," went on Miss Haddon.  "I am so interested."

Tom helped the girls out, receiving their thanks as well as those of
the children in the second boat.  But as he walked with the young
ladies through the grove the young inventor registered a mental vow
that he would steer clear of explaining again how a gasoline engine
worked.

"Now come right over this way to our table," invited Miss Nestor.  "I
want you to meet papa and mamma."

Tom followed her.  As he stepped from behind a clump of trees he saw,
standing not far away, a figure that seemed strangely familiar.  A
moment later the figure turned and Tom saw Andy Foger confronting him.
At the sight of our hero the bully turned red and walked quickly away,
while Tom's fingers touched the ring of keys in his pocket.




CHAPTER VII

A BRUSH WITH ANDY


So unexpected was his encounter with Andy that the young inventor
hardly knew how to act, especially since he was a guest of the young
ladies.  Tom did not want to do or say anything to embarrass them or
make a scene, yet he did want to have a talk, and a very serious talk,
with Andy Foger.

Miss Nestor must have noticed Tom's sudden start at his glimpse of
Andy, for she asked: "Did you see some one you knew, Mr. Swift?"

"Yes," replied Tom, "I did--er--that is--" He paused in some confusion.

"Perhaps you'd like---that is prefer--to go with them instead of taking
lunch with girls who don't know anything about engines?" she persisted.

"Oh, no indeed," Tom hastened to assure her.  "He--that is--the person
I saw wouldn't care to have me lunch with him," and the youth smiled
grimly.

"Would you like to bring him over to our table?" inquired Miss Carson.
"We have plenty for him."

"No, I think that would hardly do," continued the lad, who tried not to
smile at the picture of the red-haired and squint-eyed Andy Foger
making one of a party with the girls.  The young ladies fortunately had
not noticed the bully, who was out of view by this time.

Tom was presented to Mr. and Mrs. Nestor, who told him how glad they
were to meet the young man who had been instrumental in saving their
daughter from injury, if not death.  Tom was a bit embarrassed, but
bore the praise as well as he could, and he was very glad when a
diversion, in the shape of lunch, occurred.

After a meal on tables under the trees in the grove Tom took the girls
and some of their friends out in his motor-boat again.  They covered
several miles around the lake before returning to the picnic ground.

As Tom was starting toward home in his boat, wondering what had become
of Andy and trying to think of a reason why the bully should attend
anything as "tame" as a church picnic, the object of his thoughts came
strolling through the trees down to the shore of the lake.  The moment
he saw Tom the red-haired lad started back, but the young inventor,
leaping out of his boat, called out:

"Hold on there, Andy Foger, I want to see you!" and there was menace in
Tom's tone.

"But, I don't want to see you!" retorted the other sulkily.  "I've got
no use for you."

"No more have I for you," was Tom's quick reply.  "But I want to return
you these keys.  You dropped them in my boat the other night when you
tried to set it afire.  If I ever catch you--"

"My keys!  Your boat!  On fire!" gasped Andy, so plainly astonished
that Tom knew his surprise was genuine.

"Yes, your keys.  You were a little too quick for me or I'd have
caught you at it.  The next time you pick a lock don't leave your keys
behind you," and he held out the jingling ring.

Andy Foger advanced slowly.  He took the bunch of keys and looked at
the tag.

"They are mine," he said slowly, as if there was some doubt about it.

"Of course they are," declared Tom.  "I found them where you dropped
them--in my boat."

"Do you mean over at the auction?"

"No, I mean down in my boathouse, where you sneaked in the other night
and tried to do some damage.

"The other night!" cried Andy.  "I never was near your boathouse any
night and I never lost my keys there!  I lost these the day of the
auction, on Mr. Hastings' ground, and I've been looking for them ever
since."

"Didn't you sneak in my boathouse the other night and try to do some
mischief?  Didn't you drop them then?"

"No, I didn't," retorted Andy earnestly.  "I lost those keys at the
auction, and I can prove it to you.  Look, I advertised for them in the
weekly Gazette."

The red-haired lad pulled a crumpled paper from his pocket and showed
Tom an advertisement offering a reward of two dollars for a bunch of
keys on a ring, supposed to have been lost at the auction on Mr.
Hastings' grounds in Lanton.  The finder was to return them to Andy
Foger.

"Does that look as if I lost the keys in your boathouse?" demanded the
bully sneeringly.  "I wouldn't have advertised them that way if I'd been
trying to keep my visit quiet.  Besides, I can prove that I was out of
town several nights.  I was over to an entertainment in Mansburg one
night and I didn't get home until two o'clock in the morning, because
my machine broke down.  Ask Ned Newton.  He saw me at the
entertainment."

Andy's manner was so earnest that Tom could not help believing him.
Then there was the evidence of the advertisement.  Clearly the
squint-eyed youth had not been the mysterious visitor to the boathouse
and had not unlocked the forward compartment.  But if it was not he,
who could it have been and how did the keys get there?  These were
questions which racked Tom's brain.

"You can ask Ned Newton," repeated Andy.  "He'll prove that I couldn't
have been near your place, if you don't believe me."

"Oh, I believe you all right," answered Tom, for there could be no
doubting Andy's manner, even though he and the young inventor were not
on good terms.  "But how did your keys get in my boat?"

"I don't know, unless you found them, kept them and dropped them
there," was the insolent answer.

"You know better than that," exclaimed Tom.

"Well, I owe you a reward of two dollars for giving them back to me,"
continued the bully patronizingly.  "Here it is," and he hauled out
some bills.

"I don't want your money!" fired back Tom.

"But I'd like to know who it was that was in my boat."

"And I'd like to know who it was took my keys," and Andy stuffed the
money back in his pocket.  Tom did not answer.  He was puzzling over a
queer matter and he wanted to be alone and think.  He turned aside from
the red-haired lad and walked toward his motor-boat.

"I'll give you a surprise in a few days," Andy called after him, but
Tom did not turn his head nor did he inquire what the surprise might be.

Mr. Swift was somewhat puzzled when his son related the outcome of the
key incident.  He agreed with Tom that some one might have found the
ring and kept it, and that the same person might have been the one whom
Tom had surprised in the boathouse.

"But it's idle to speculate on it," commented the inventor.  "Andy
might have induced some of his chums to act for him in harming your
boat, and the key advertisement might have been only a ruse."

"I hardly think so," answered his son, shaking his head.  "It strikes
me as being very curious, and I'm going to see if I can't get at the
bottom of it."

But a week or more passed and Tom had no clew.  In the meanwhile he was
working away at his motor-boat, installing several improvements.

One of these was a better pump, which circulated the water around the
cylinders, and another was a new system of lubrication under forced
feed.

"This ought to give me a little more speed," reasoned Tom, who was not
yet satisfied with his craft.  "Guess I'll take it out for a spin."

He was alone in the ARROW, taking a long course up the lake when, as he
passed a wooded point that concealed from view a sort of bay, he heard
the puffing of another motor-boat.

"Maybe that's Mr. Hastings," thought Tom.  "If I raced with him now, I
think the ARROW could give a better account of herself."

The young inventor looked at the boat as it came into view.  It needed
but a glance to show that it was not the CARLOPA.  Then, as it came
nearer, Tom saw a familiar figure in it--a red-haired, squint-eyed chap.

"Andy Foger!" exclaimed Tom.  "He's got a motor-boat!  This is the
surprise he spoke of."

The boat was rapidly approaching him, and he saw that it was painted a
vivid red.  Then he could make out the name on the bow, RED STREAK.
Andy was sending the craft toward him at a fast rate.

"You needn't think you're the only one on this lake who has a gasoline
boat!" called Andy boastfully.  "This is my new one and the fastest
thing afloat around here.  I can go all around you.  Do you want to
race?"

It was a "dare," and Tom never took such things when he could
reasonably enter a contest.  He swung his boat around so as to shoot
alongside of Andy and answered:

"Yes, I'll race you.  Where to?"

"Down opposite Kolb's dock and back to this point," was the answer.
"I'll give you a start, as my engine has three cylinders.  This is a
racing boat."

"I don't need any start," declared Tom.  "I'll race you on even terms.
Go ahead!"

Both lads adjusted their timers to get more speed.  The water began to
curl away from the sharp prows, the motors exploded faster and faster.
The race was on between the ARROW and the RED STREAK.




CHAPTER VIII

OFF ON A TRIP


Glancing with critical eyes at the craft of his rival, Tom saw that
Andy Foger had a very fine boat.  The young inventor also realized that
if he was to come anywhere near winning the race he would have to get
the utmost speed out of his engine, for the new boat the bully had was
designed primarily for racing, while Tom's was an all-around pleasure
craft, though capable of something in the speed line.

"I'll be giving you a tow in a few minutes, as soon as my engine gets
warmed up!" sneered Andy.

"Maybe," said Tom, and then he crouched down to make as little
resistance as possible to the wind.  Andy, on the contrary, sat boldly
upright at the auto steering wheel of his boat.

On rushed the two motor craft, their prows exactly even and the
propellers tossing up a bulge in the water at their sterns.  Rapidly
acquiring speed after the two lads had adjusted the timers on their
motors, the boats were racing side by side, seemingly on even terms.

The RED STREAK had a very sharp prow, designed to cut through the
water. It was of the type known as an automobile launch.  That is, the
engine was located forward, under a sort of hood, which had two hinged
covers like a bat's wings. The steering-wheel shaft went through the
forward bulkhead, slantingly, like the wheel of an auto, and was
arranged with gasoline and sparking levers on the center post in a
similar manner. At the right of the wheel was a reversing lever, by
which the propeller blades could be set at neutral, or arranged so as
to drive the boat backward. Altogether the RED STREAK was a very fine
boat and had cost considerably more than had Tom's, even when the
latter was new. All these things the young owner of the ARROW thought
of as he steered his craft over the course.

"I hardly think I can win," Tom remarked to himself in a whisper.  "His
boat is too speedy for this one.  I have a chance, though, for his
engine is new, and I don't believe he understands it as well as I do
mine.  Then, too, I am sure I have a better ignition system."

But if Tom had any immediate hopes of defeating Andy, they were doomed
to disappointment, for about two minutes after the race started the RED
STREAK forged slowly ahead.

"Come on!" cried the red-haired lad.  "I thought you wanted a race."

"I do," answered the young inventor.  "We're a long way from the dock
yet, and we've got to come back."

"You'll be out of it by the time I get to the dock," declared Andy.

Indeed it began to look so, for the auto boat was now a full length
ahead of Tom's craft and there was open water between them.  But our
hero knew a thing or two about racing, though he had not long been a
motor-boat owner.  He adjusted the automatic oiler on the cylinders to
give more lubrication, as he intended to get more speed out of his
engine.  Then he opened the gasoline cock a trifle more and set his
timer forward a few notches to get an earlier spark.  He was not going
to use the maximum speed just yet, but he first wanted to see how the
motor of the ARROW would behave under these conditions.  To his delight
he saw his boat slowly creeping up on Andy's.  The latter, with a
glance over his shoulder, saw it too, and he advanced his spark.  His
craft forged ahead, but the rate of increase was not equal to Tom's.
"If I can keep up to him I suppose I ought to be glad," thought the
young inventor, "for his boat is away ahead of mine in rating."

Through the water the sharp bows cut.  There were only a few witnesses
to the race, but those who were out in boats saw a pretty sight as the
two speedy craft came on toward the dock, which was the turning point.

Andy's boat reached it first, and swung about in a wide circle for the
return.  Tom decided it was time to make his boat do its best, so he
set the timer at the limit, and the spark, coming more quickly,
increased the explosions.

Up shot the ARROW and, straightening out after the turn, Tom's craft
crept along until it lapped the stern of the RED STREAK.  Andy looked
back in dismay.  Then he tried to get more speed out of his engine.  He
did cause the screw to revolve a little faster, and Tom noted that he
was again being left behind.  Then one of those things, which may
happen at any time to a gasoline motor, happened to Andy's.  It began
to miss explosions.  At first it was only occasionally, then the misses
became more frequent.

The owner of the RED STREAK with one hand on the steering wheel, tried
with the other to adjust the motor to get rid of the trouble, but he
only made it worse.  Andy's boat began to fall back and Tom's to creep
up.  Frantically Andy worked the gasoline and sparking levers, but
without avail.  At last one cylinder went completely out of service.

The two boats were now on even terms and were racing along side by side
toward the wooded, point, which marked the finish.

"I'll beat you yet!" exclaimed Andy fiercely.

"Better hurry up!" retorted Tom.

But the young inventor was not to have it all his own way.  With a
freakishness equal to that with which it had ceased to explode the dead
cylinder came to life again, and the RED STREAK shot ahead.  Once more
Andy's boat had the lead of a length and the finish of the race was
close at hand.  The squint-eyed lad turned and shouted: "I told you I'd
beat you!  Want a tow now?"

It began to look as though Tom would need it, but he still had
something in reserve.  One of the improvements he had put in the ARROW
was a new auxiliary ignition system.  This he now decided to use.

With a quick motion Tom threw over the switch that put it into
operation.  A hotter, "fatter" spark was at once produced, and
adjusting his gasoline cock so that a little more of the fluid would be
drawn in, making a "richer" mixture, the owner of the ARROW saw the
craft shoot forward as if, like some weary runner, new life had been
infused.

In vain did Andy frantically try to get more speed out of his motor.
He cut out the muffler, and the explosions sounded loudly over the
lake.  But it was no use.  A minute later the ARROW, which had slowly
forged ahead, crossed the bows of the RED STREAK opposite the finishing
point, and Tom had won the race.

"Well, was that fair?" our hero called to Andy, who had quickly shut
off some of his power as he saw his rival's daring trick.  "Did I beat
you fair?"

"You wouldn't have beaten me if my engine hadn't gone back on me,"
grumbled Andy, chagrin showing on his face.  "Wait until my motor runs
smoother and I'll give you a big handicap and beat you.  My boat's
faster than yours.  It ought to be.  It cost fifteen hundred dollars
and it's a racer."

"I guess it doesn't like racing," commented Tom as he swung the prow of
his craft down the lake toward his home.  But he knew there was some
truth in what Andy had said.  The RED STREAK was a more speedy boat,
and, with proper handling, could have beaten the ARROW.  That was where
Tom's superior knowledge came in useful.  "Just you wait, I'll beat you
yet," called Andy, after the young inventor, but the latter made no
answer.  He was satisfied.

Mr. Swift was much interested that night in his son's account of the
race.

"I had no idea yours was such a speedy boat," he said.

"Well, it wasn't originally," admitted Tom, "but the improvements I put
on it made it so.  But, dad, when are we going on our tour?  You look
more worn out than I've seen you in some time, not excepting when the
turbine model was stolen.  Are you worrying over your gyroscope
invention?"

"Somewhat, Tom.  I can't seem to hit on just what I want.  It's a
difficult problem."

"Then I tell you what let's do, dad.  Let's drop everything in the
inventive line and go off on a vacation.  I'll take you up the lake in
my boat and you can spend a week at the Lakeview Hotel at Sandport.  It
will do you good."

"What will you do, Tom?"

"Oh, Ned Newton and I will cruise about and we'll take you along any
time you want to go.  We're going to camp out nights or sleep in the
boat if it rains.  I've ordered a canopy with side curtains.  Ned and I
don't care for the hotel life in the summer.  Will you go?"

Mr. Swift considered a moment.  He did need a rest, for he had been
working hard and his brain was weary with thinking of many problems.
His son's program sounded very attractive.

"I think I will accept," said the inventor with a smile.  "When can you
start, Tom?"

"In about four days.  Ned Newton will get his vacation then and I'll
have the canopy on.  I'll start to work at it to-morrow.  Then we'll go
on a trip."

Sandport was a summer resort at the extreme southern end of Lake
Carlopa, and Mr. Swift at once wrote to the Lakeview Hotel there to
engage a room for himself.  In the meanwhile Tom began to put the
canopy on his boat and arrange for the trip, which would take nearly a
whole day.  Ned Newton was delighted with the prospect of a camping
tour and helped Tom to get ready.  They took a small tent and plenty of
supplies, with some food.  They did not need to carry many rations, as
the shores of the lake were lined with towns and villages where food
could be procured.

Finally all was ready for the trip and the night before the start Ned
Newton stayed at Tom's house so as to be in readiness for going off
early in the morning.  The day was all that could be desired, Tom
noted, as he and his chum hurried down to the dock before breakfast to
put their blankets in the boat.  As the young inventor entered the
craft he uttered an exclamation.

"What's the matter?" asked Ned.

"I was sure I locked the sliding door of that forward compartment," was
the reply.  "Now it's open."  He looked inside the space occupied by
the gasoline tank and cried out:  "One of the braces is gone!  There's
been some one at my boat in the night and they tried to damage her."

"Much harm done?" asked Ned anxiously.

"No, none at all, to speak of," replied Tom.  "I can easily put a new
block under the tank.  In fact, I don't really need all I have.  But
why should any one take one out, and who did it?  That's what I want to
know."

The two lads looked carefully about the dock and boat for a sign of the
missing block or any clews that might show who had been tampering with
the ARROW, but they could find nothing.

"Maybe the block fell out," suggested Ned.

"It couldn't," replied Tom.  "It was one of the new ones I put in
myself and it was nailed fast.  You can see where it's been pried
loose.  I can't understand it," and Tom thought rapidly of several
mysterious occurrences of late in which the strange man at the auction
and the person he had surprised one night in the boathouse had a part.

"Well, it needn't delay our trip," resumed the young inventor.  "Maybe
there's a hoodoo around here, and it will do us good to get away a few
days.  Come on, we'll have breakfast, get dad and start."

A little later the ARROW was puffing away up the lake in the direction
of Sandport.




CHAPTER IX

MR. SWIFT IS ALARMED


"Don't you feel better already, dad?" asked Tom that noon as they
stopped under a leaning, overhanging tree for lunch on the shore of the
lake.  "I'll leave it to Ned if you don't look more contented and less
worried."

"I believe he does," agreed the other lad.  "Well, I must say I
certainly have enjoyed the outing so far," admitted the inventor with a
smile.  "And I haven't been bothering about my gyroscope.  I think I'll
take another sandwich, Tom, and a few more olives."

"That's the way to talk!" cried the son.  "Your appetite is improving,
too.  If Mrs. Baggert could see you she'd say so."

"Oh, yes, Mrs. Baggert.  I do hope she and Garret will look after the
house and shops well," said Mr. Swift, and the old, worried look came
like a shadow over his face.

"Now don't be thinking of that, dad," advised Tom, "Of course
everything will be all right.  Do you think some of those model thieves
will return and try to get some of your other inventions?"

"I don't know, Tom.  Those men were unscrupulous scoundrels, and you
can never tell what they might do to revenge themselves on us for
defeating their plans."

"Well, I guess Garret and Mrs. Baggert will look out for them,"
remarked his son.  "Don't worry."

"Yes, it's bad for the digestion," added Ned.  "If you don't mind, Tom,
I'll have some more coffee and another sandwich myself."

"Nothing the matter with your appetite, either," commented the young
inventor as he passed the coffee pot and the plate.

They were soon on their way again, the ARROW making good time up the
lake.  Tom was at the engine, making several minor adjustments to it,
while Ned steered.  Mr. Swift reclined on one of the cushioned seats
under the shade of the canopy.  The young owner of the ARROW looked
over the stretch of water from time to time for a possible sight of
Andy Foger, but the RED STREAK was not to be seen.  The Lakeview Hotel
was reached late that afternoon and the boat was tied up to the dock,
while Tom and Ned accompanied Mr. Swift to see him comfortably
established in his room.

"Won't you stay to supper with me?" invited the inventor to his son and
the latter's chum.  "Or do you want to start right in on camp life?"

"I guess we'll stay to supper and remain at the hotel to-night,"
decided Tom.  "We got here a little later than I expected, and Ned and
I hardly have time to go very far and establish a temporary camp.
We'll live a life of luxurious ease to-night and begin to be
'wanderlusters' and get back to nature to-morrow."

In the morning Tom and his chum, full of enthusiasm for the pleasures
before them, started off, promising to come back to the hotel in a few
days to see how Mr. Swift felt.  The trip had already done the man good
and his face wore a brighter look.

Tom and Ned, in the speedy ARROW, cruised along the lakeshores all that
morning.  At noon they went ashore, made a temporary camp and arranged
to spend the night there in the tent.  After this was erected they got
out their fishing tackle and passed the afternoon at that sport, having
such good luck that they provided their own supper without having to
depend on canned stuff.

They lived this life for three days, making a new camp each night,
being favored with good weather, so that they did not have to sleep in
the boat to keep dry.  On the afternoon of the third day Tom, with a
critical glance at the sky, remarked:

"I shouldn't be surprised if it rained to-morrow, Ned."

"Me either.  It does look sort of hazy, and the wind is in a bad
quarter."

"Then what do you say to heading for the hotel? I fancy dad will be glad
to see us."

"That suits me. We can start camp life again after the storm passes."

They started for Sandport that afternoon.  When within about two miles
of the hotel dock Tom saw, just ahead of them, a small motor-boat.  Ned
observed it too and called out:

"S'pose that's Andy looking for another race?"

"No, the boat's too small for his.  We'll put over that way and see who
it is."

The other craft did not appear to be moving very rapidly and the ARROW
was soon overhauling it.  As the two chums came nearer they could hear
the puffing of the motor.  Tom listened with critical ears.

"That machine isn't working right," he remarked to his chum.

At that moment there sounded a loud explosion from the other boat and
at the same time there came over the water a shrill cry of alarm.
"That's a girl in that boat!" exclaimed Ned.  "Maybe she's hurt."

"No, the motor only backfired," observed Tom.  "But we'll go over and
see if we can help her.  Perhaps she doesn't understand it.  Girls
don't know much about machinery."

A little later the ARROW shot up alongside the other craft, which had
come to a stop.  The two lads could see a girl bending over the motor,
twirling the flywheel and trying to get it started.  "Can I help you?"
asked Tom, shutting off the power from his craft.

The young lady glanced up.  Her face was red and she seemed ill at
ease.  At the sight of the young inventor she uttered an exclamation of
relief.

"Why, Mr. Swift!" she cried.  "Oh, I'm in such trouble.  I can't make
the machine work, and I'm afraid it's broken; it exploded."

"Miss Nestor!" blurted out Tom, more surprised evidently to see his
acquaintance of the runaway again than she was at beholding him.  "I
didn't know you ran a motor-boat," he added.  "I don't," said she
simply and helplessly.  "That's the trouble, it won't run."

"How comes it that you are up here?" went on Tom.

"I am stopping with friends, who have a cottage near the Lakeview
Hotel.  They have a motor-boat and I got Dick Blythe--he's the owner of
this--to show me how to run it.  I thought I knew, and I started out a
little while ago.  At first it went beautifully, but a few minutes ago
it blew up, or--or something dreadful happened."

"Nothing very dreadful, I guess," Tom assured her.  "I think I can fix
it."  He got into the other boat and soon saw what the trouble was.
The carburetor had gotten out of adjustment and the gasoline was not
feeding properly.  The young inventor soon had it in order, and,
testing the motor, found that it worked perfectly.

"Oh, I can't thank you enough," cried Miss Nestor with a flash from her
brown eyes that made Tom's heart beat double time.  "I was afraid I had
damaged the boat, and I knew Dick, who is a sort of second cousin of
mine, would never forgive me."

"There's no harm done," Tom assured her.  "But you had better keep near
us on your way back, that is, if you are going back."

"Oh, indeed I am.  I was frightened when I found I'd come so far away
from shore, and then, when that explosion took place--well, you can
imagine how I felt.  Indeed I will keep near you.  Are you stopping
near here?  If you are, I wish you'd come and see me, you and Mr.
Newton," she added, for Tom had introduced his chum.

"I'll be very glad to," answered our hero, and he told how he happened
to be in the neighborhood.  "I'll give you a few lessons in managing a
boat, if you like," he added.

"Oh, will you?  That will be lovely!  I won't tell Dick about it, and
I'll surprise him some day by showing him how well I can run his boat."

"Good idea," commented Tom.

He started the motor for Miss Nestor, having stopped it after his first
test, and then, with the DOT, which was the name of the small boat Miss
Nestor was in, following the larger ARROW, the run back to the hotel
was made.  The young lady turned off near the Lakeview dock to go to
the cottage where she was stopping and the lads tied up at the hotel
boathouse.

"Yes, we are in for a storm," remarked Tom as he and his chum walked up
toward the hotel.  "I wonder how dad is?  I hope the outing is doing
him good."

"There he comes now," observed Ned, and, looking up, Tom saw his father
approaching.  The young inventor was at once struck by the expression
on his parent's face.  Mr. Swift looked worried and Tom anxiously
hastened forward to meet him.

"What's the matter dad?" he asked as cheerfully as he could.  "Have you
been figuring over that gyroscope problem again, against my express
orders?" and he laughed a little.

"No, Tom, it's not the gyroscope that's worrying me."

"What is it then?"

"Those scoundrels are around again, Tom!" and Mr. Swift looked
apprehensively about him.

"You mean the men who stole the turbine model?"

"Yes.  I was walking in the woods near the hotel yesterday and I saw
Anson Morse.  He did not see me, for I turned aside as quickly as I had
a glimpse of him.  He was talking to another man."

"What sort of a man?"

"Well, an ordinary enough individual, but I noticed that he had
tattooed on the little finger of his left hand a blue ring."

"Happy Harry, the tramp!" exclaimed Tom.  "What can he and Morse be
doing here?"

"I don't know, Tom, but I'm worried.  I wish I was back home.  I'm
afraid something may happen to some of my inventions.  I want to go
back to Shopton, Tom."

"Nonsense, dad.  Don't worry just because you saw some of your former
enemies.  Everything is all right at home.  Mrs. Baggert and Garret
Jackson will look after things.  But, if you like, I, can find out for
you how matters are."

"How, Tom?"

"By taking a run down there in my motor-boat.  I can do it to-morrow
and get back by night, if I start early.  Then you will not worry."

"All right, Tom; I wish you would.  Come up to my room and we will talk
it over.  I'd rather leave you go than telephone, as I don't like to
talk of my business over the wire if I can avoid it."




CHAPTER X

A CRY FOR HELP


"Now, dad, tell me all about it," requested Tom when he and Ned were in
Mr. Swift's apartment at the hotel, safe from the rain that was
falling.  "How did you happen to see Anson Morse and Happy Harry?" My
old readers will doubtless remember that the latter was the disguised
tramp who was so vindictive toward Tom, while Morse was the man who
endeavored to sneak in Mr. Swift's shop and steal a valuable invention.

"Well, Tom," proceeded the inventor, "there isn't much to tell.  I was
out walking in the woods yesterday, and when I was behind a clump of
bushes I heard voices.  I looked out and there I saw the two men."

"At first I thought they were trailing me, but I saw that they had not
seen me, and I didn't see how they could know I was in the
neighborhood.  So I quietly made my way back to the hotel."

"Could you hear what they were saying?"

"Not all, but they seemed angry over something.  The man with the blue
ring on his finger asked the other man whether Murdock had been heard
from."

"Who is Murdock?"

"I don't know, unless he is another member of the gang or unless that
is an assumed name."

"It may be that.  What else did you hear?"

"The man we know as Morse replied that he hadn't heard from him, but
that he suspected Murdock was playing a double game.  Then the
tramp--Happy Harry--asked this question: 'Have you any clew to the
sparkler?' And Morse answered: 'No, but I think Murdock has hid it
somewhere and is trying to get away with it without giving us our
share.' Then the two men walked away, and I came back to the hotel,"
finished Mr. Swift.

"Sparkler," murmured Tom.  "I wonder what that can be?"

"That's a slang word for diamonds," suggested Ned.

"So it is.  In that case, dad, I think we have nothing to worry about.
Those fellows must be going to commit a diamond robbery or perhaps it
has already taken place."

The inventor seemed relieved at this theory of his son.  His face
brightened and he said: "If they are going to commit a robbery, Tom, we
ought to notify the police."

"But if they said that 'Murdock,' whoever he is, had the sparkler and
was trying to get away with it without giving them their share,
wouldn't that indicate that the robbery had already taken place?" asked
Ned.

"That's so," agreed Tom.  "But it won't do any harm to tell the hotel
detective that suspicious characters are around, no matter if the robbery
has been committed.  Then he can be on the lookout.  But I don't think we
have anything to worry about, dad.  Still, if you like, I'll take a run
down to the house to see that everything is all right, though I'm sure
it will be found that we have nothing to be alarmed over."

"Well, I will be more relieved if you do," said the inventor, "However,
suppose we have a good supper now and you boys can stay at the hotel
to-night.  Then you and Ned can start off early in the morning."

"All right," agreed Tom, but there was a thoughtful look on his face
and he appeared to be planning something that needed careful attention
to details.

After supper that night Tom took his chum to one side and asked: "Would
you mind very much if you didn't make the trip to Shopton with me?"

"No, Tom, of course not, if it will help you any.  Do you want me to
stay here?"

"I think it will be a good plan.  I don't like to leave dad alone if
those scoundrels are around.  Of course he's able to look after
himself, but sometimes he gets absent minded from thinking too much
about his inventions."

"Of course I'll stay here at the hotel.  This is just as good a
vacation as I could wish."

"Oh, I don't mean all the while.  Just a day or so--until I come back.
I may be here again by to-morrow night and find that my father is
needlessly alarmed.  Then something may have happened at home and I
would be delayed.  If I should be, I'd feel better to know that you
were here."

"Then I'll stay, and if I see any of those men--"

"You'd better steer clear of them," advised Tom quickly.  "They are
dangerous customers."

"All right.  Then I'll go over and give Miss Nestor lessons on how to
run a motor-boat," was the smiling response.  "I fancy, with what she
and I know, we can make out pretty well."

"Hold on there!" cried Tom gaily.  "No trespassing, you know."

"Oh, I'll just say I'm your agent," promised Ned with a grin.  "You
can't object to that."

"No, I s'pose not.  Well, do the best you can.  She is certainly a nice
girl."

"Yes, but you do seem to turn up at most opportune times.  Luck is
certainly with you where she is concerned.  First you save her in a
runaway--"

"After I start the runaway," interrupted Tom.

"Then you take her for a ride in your motor-boat, and, lastly, you come
to her relief when she is stalled in the middle of the lake.  Oh you
certainly are a lucky dog!"

"Never mind, I'm giving you a show.  Now let's get to bed early, as I
want to get a good start."

Tom awoke to find a nasty, drizzling rainstorm in progress, and the
lake was almost hidden from view by a swirling fog.  Still he was not
to be daunted from his trip to Shopton by the weather, and, after a
substantial breakfast, he bade his father and Ned good-by and started
off in the ARROW.

The canopy he had provided was an efficient protection against the
rain, a celluloid window in the forward hanging curtains affording him
a view so that he could steer.

Through the mist puffed the boat, the motor being throttled down to
medium speed, for Tom was not as familiar with the lake as he would
like to have been, and he did not want to run aground or into another
craft.

He was thinking over what his father had told him about the presence of
the men and vainly wondering what might be their reference to the
"sparkler."  His thoughts also dwelt on the curious removal of the
bracing block from under the gasoline tank of his boat.

"I shouldn't be surprised but what Andy Foger did that," he mused.
"Some day he and I will have a grand fight, and then maybe he'll let me
alone.  Well, I've got other things to think about now.  The hotel
detective can keep a lookout for the men around the hotel, after the
warning I gave him, and I'll see that all is right at home."

The fog lifted somewhat and Tom put on more speed.  As he was steering
the boat along near shore he heard, off to the woods at his right, the
report of a gun.  It came so suddenly that he jumped involuntarily.  A
moment later there sounded, plainly through the damp air, a cry for
help.

"Some one's hurt--shot!" cried the youth aloud.

He turned the boat in toward the bank.  As he shut off the power from
the motor he heard the cry again:

"Help! Help!  Help!"

"I must go ashore!" he exclaimed.  "Probably some one is badly wounded
by a gun."

He paused for a moment as the fear came to him that it might be some of
the patent thieves.  Then, dismissing that idea as the ARROW's prow
touched the gravel, Tom sprang out, drew the boat up a little way,
fastened the rope to a tree and hurried off into the dripping woods in
the direction of the voice that was calling for aid.




CHAPTER XI

A QUICK RUN


"Where are you?"  cried Tom.  "Are you hurt?  Where are you?"

Uttering these words after he had hurried into the woods a short
distance, the young inventor paused for an answer.  At first he could
hear nothing but the drip of water from the branches of the trees;
then, as he listened intently, he became aware of a groan not far away.

"Where are you?"  cried the lad again.  "I've come to help you.  Where
are you?"

He had lost what little fear he had had at first, that it might be one
of the unscrupulous gang, and came to the conclusion that he might
safely offer to help.

Once more the groan sounded and it was followed by a faint voice
speaking:

"Here I am, under the big oak tree.  Oh, whoever you are, help me
quickly!  I'm bleeding to death!"

With the sound of the voice to guide him, Tom swung around.  The appeal
had come from the left and, looking in that direction, he saw, through
the mist, a large oak tree.  Leaping over the underbrush toward it he
caught sight of the wounded man at its foot.  Beside him lay a gun and
there was a wound in the man's right arm.

"Who shot you?"  cried Tom, hurrying to the side of the man.  "Was it
some of those patent thieves?"  Then, realizing that a stranger would
know nothing of the men who had stolen the model, Tom prepared to
change the form of his question.  But, before he had an opportunity to
do this, the man, whose eyes were closed, opened them, and, as he got a
better sight of his face, Tom uttered a cry.

"Why, it's Mr. Duncan!"  exclaimed the lad.  He had recognized the rich
hunter, whom he had first met in the woods that spring shortly after
Happy Harry, the tramp, had disabled Tom's motor-cycle.  "Mr. Duncan,"
the young inventor repeated, "how did you get shot?"

"Is that you, Tom Swift?"  asked the gunner.  "Help me, please.  I must
stop this bleeding in my arm.  I'll tell you about it afterward.  Wind
something around it tight--your handkerchief will do."

The man sighed weakly and his eyes closed again.  The lad saw the blood
spurting from an ugly wound.

"I must make a tourniquet," the youth exclaimed.  "That will check the
bleeding until I can get him to a doctor."

With Tom to think was to act.  He took out his knife and cut off Mr.
Duncan's sleeves below the injury, slashing through coat and shirts.
Then he saw that part of a charge of shot had torn away some of the
large muscular development of the upper arm.  The hunter seemed to have
fainted and the youth worked quickly.  Tying his handkerchief above the
wound and inserting a small stone under the cloth, so that the pebble
would press on the main artery, Tom put a stick in the handkerchief and
began to twist it.  This had the effect of tightening the linen around
the arm, and in a few seconds the lad was glad to see that the blood
had stopped spurting out with every beat of the heart.  Giving the
tourniquet a few more twists to completely stop the flow of blood, Tom
fastened the stick-lever in place by a bit of string.

"That's--that's better," murmured Mr. Duncan.  "Now if you can go for a
doctor--"  He had to pause for breath.

"I'll not leave you here alone while I go for a doctor," declared Tom.
"I have my motor-boat on the lake.  Do you think I could get you down
to it and take you home?"

"Perhaps--maybe.  I'll be stronger in a moment, now that the bleeding
has stopped.  But not--not home--frighten my wife.  Take me to the
sanitarium if you can--sanitarium up the lake, a few miles from here."

The unfortunate man, who had tried to sit upright, had to lean back
against the tree again.  Tom understood what he meant in spite of the
broken sentences.  Mr. Duncan did not want to be taken home in the
condition he was then in, for fear of alarming his wife.  He wanted to
be taken to the sanitarium, and Tom knew where this was, a well-known
resort for the treatment of various diseases and surgical cases.  It
was about five miles away and on the opposite shore of the lake.

"Water--a drink!"  murmured Mr. Duncan.

Seeing that his patient would be all right, for a few minutes at least,
Tom hurried to his motor-boat, got a cup and, filling it with water
from a jug he carried, he hastened with it to the hunter.  The fluid
revived the man wonderfully and now that the bleeding had almost
completely stopped, Mr. Duncan was much stronger.

"Do you think you can get to the boat, if I help you?"  asked Tom.

"Yes, I believe so.  To think of meeting you again, and under such
circumstances!  It is providential."

"Did someone shoot you?"  inquired Tom, who could not get out of his
head the notion of the men who had once assaulted him.

"No, I shot myself," answered Mr. Duncan as he got to his feet with
Tom's help.  "I was out with my gun, practicing just as I was that day
when I met you in the woods.  I stooped down to crawl under a bush and
the weapon went off, the muzzle being close against my arm.  I can't
understand how it happened.  I fell down and called for help.  Then I
guess I must have fainted, but I came to when I heard you talking to
me.  I shouldn't have come out to-day as it is so wet, but I had some
new shot shells I wished to try in order to test them before the
hunting season.  But if I can get to the sanitarium, I will be well
taken care of.  I know one of the doctors there."

With Tom leading him and acting as a sort of support, the journey to
the motor-boat was slowly made.  Making as comfortable a bed as
possible out of the seat cushions, Tom assisted Mr. Duncan to it, and
then starting the engine he sent his boat out from shore at half speed,
as the fog was still thick and he did not want to run upon a rock.

"Do you know where the sanitarium is?"  asked the wounded hunter.

"About," answered Tom a little doubtfully, "but I'm afraid it's going
to be hard to locate it in this fog."

"There's a compass in my coat pocket," said Mr. Duncan.  "Take it out
and I'll tell you how to steer.  You ought to carry a compass if you're
going to be a sailor."

Tom was beginning to think so himself and wondered that he had not
thought of it before.  He found the one the hunter had, and placing it
on the seat near him, he carefully listened to the wounded man's
directions.  Tom easily comprehended and soon had the boat headed in
the proper direction.  After that it was comparatively easy to keep on
the right course, even in the fog.

But there was another danger, however, and this was that he might run
into another boat.  True, there were not many on Lake Carlopa, but
there were some, and one of the few motor-boats might be out in spite
of the bad weather.

"Guess I'll not run at full speed," decided Tom.  "I wouldn't like to
crash into the RED STREAK.  We'd both sink."

So he did not run his motor at the limit and sat at the steering-wheel,
peering ahead into the fog for the first sight of another craft.

He turned to look at Mr. Duncan and was alarmed at the pallor of his
face.  The man's eyes were closed and he was breathing in a peculiar
manner.

"Mr. Duncan," cried Tom, "are you worse?"

There was no answer.  Leaving the helm for a moment, Tom bent over the
injured hunter.  A glance showed him what had happened.  The tourniquet
had slipped and the wound was bleeding again.  Tom quickly shut off the
motor, so that he might give his whole attention to the work of
tightening the handkerchief.  But something seemed to be wrong.  No
matter how tightly he twisted the stick the blood did not stop flowing.
The lad was frightened.  In a short time the man would bleed to death.

"I've got to get him to the sanitarium in record time!"  exclaimed Tom.
"Fog or no fog, I've got to run at full speed!  I've got to chance it!"

Making the bandage as tight as he could and fastening it in place, the
young inventor sprang to the motor and set it in motion.  Then he went
to the wheel.  In a few minutes the ARROW was speeding through the
water as it had never done before, except when it had raced the RED
STREAK.  "If I hit anything--good-by!"  thought Tom grimly.  His hands
were tense on the rim of the steering-wheel and he was ready in an
instant to reverse the motor as he sat there straining his eyes to see
through the curtain of mist that hung over the lake.  Now and then he
glanced at the compass, to keep on the right course, and from time to
time he looked at Mr. Duncan.  The hunter was still unconscious.

How Tom accomplished that trip he hardly remembered afterward.  Through
the fog he shot, expecting any moment to crash into some other boat.
He did pass a rowing craft in which sat a lone fisherman.  The lad was
upon him in an instant, but a turn of the wheel sent the ARROW safely
past, and the startled fisherman, whose frail craft was set to rocking
violently by the swell from the motor-boat, sent an objecting cry
through the fog after Tom.  But the youth did not reply.  On and on he
raced, getting the last atom of power from his motor.

He feared Mr. Duncan would be dead when he arrived, but when he saw the
dock of the sanitarium looming up out of the mist and shut off the
power to slowly run up to it, he placed his hand on the wounded man's
heart and found it still beating.

"He's alive, anyhow," thought the youth, and then his craft bumped up
against the bulkhead and a man in the boathouse on the dock was sent on
the run for a physician.

Mr. Duncan was quickly taken up to the sanitarium on a stretcher and
Tom followed.

"You must have made a record run," observed one of the physicians a
little while afterward, when Tom was telling of his trip while waiting
in the office to hear the report on the hunter's condition.

"I guess I did," muttered the young inventor "only I didn't think so at
the time.  It seemed as if we were only crawling along."




CHAPTER XII

SUSPICIOUS CHARACTERS


Under the skill of the physicians at the lake sanitarium Mr. Duncan's
wound was quickly attended to and the bleeding, which Tom had partly
checked, was completely stopped.  Some medicines having been
administered, the hunter regained a little of his strength, and, about
an hour after he had been brought to the resort, he was able to see
Tom, who, at his request, was admitted to his room.  The young inventor
found Mr. Duncan propped up in bed, with his injured arm bandaged.

"Is the injury a bad one?"  asked Tom, entering softly.

"Not as bad as I feared," replied the hunter, while a trained nurse
placed a chair for the lad at the bedside.  "If it had not been for
you, though, I'm afraid to think of what might have happened."

"I am glad I chanced to be going past when you called," replied the lad.

"Well, you can imagine how thankful I am," resumed Mr. Duncan.  "I'll
thank you more properly at another time.  I hope I didn't delay you on
your trip."

"It's not of much consequence," responded the youth.  "I was only going
to see that everything was all right at our house," and he explained
about his father being at the hotel and mentioned his worriment.  "I
will go on now unless I can do something more for you," resumed Tom.
"I will probably stay at our house all night to-night instead of trying
to get back to Sandport."

"I'd like to send word to my wife about what has happened," said the
hunter.  "If it would not be too much out of your way, I'd appreciate
it if you could stop at my home in Waterford and tell her, so she will
not be alarmed at my absence."

"I'll do it," replied our hero.  "There is no special need of my
hurrying.  I have brought your gun and compass up from the boat.  They
are down in the office."

"Will you do me a favor?"  asked Mr. Duncan quickly.

"Of course."

"Then please accept that gun and compass with my compliments.  They are
both of excellent make, and I don't think I shall use that gun this
season.  My wife would be superstitious about it.  As for the compass,
you'll need one in this fog, and I can recommend mine as being
accurate."

"Oh, I couldn't think of taking them," expostulated Tom, but his eyes
sparkled in anticipation, for he had been wishing for a gun such as Mr.
Duncan owned.  He also needed a compass.

"If you don't take them I shall feel very much offended," the hunter
said, "and the nurse here will tell you that sick persons ought to be
humored.  Hadn't they?"  and he appealed to the pretty young woman, who
was smiling at Tom.

"That's perfectly true," she said, showing her white, even teeth.  "I
think, Mr. Swift, I shall have to order you to take them."

"All right," agreed Tom, "only it's too much for what I did."

"It isn't half enough," remarked Mr. Duncan solemnly.  "Just explain
matters to my wife, if you will, and tell her the doctor says I can be
out in about a week.  But I'm not going hunting or practicing shots
again."

A little later Tom, with the compass before him to guide him on his
course through the fog, was speeding his boat toward Waterford.  Now
and then he glanced at the fine shotgun which he had so unexpectedly
acquired.

"This will come in handy this fall!"  he exclaimed.  "I'll go hunting
quail and partridge as well as wild ducks.  This compass is just what I
need, too."

Mrs. Duncan was at first very much alarmed when Tom started to tell her
of the accident, but she soon calmed down as the lad went more into
details and stated how comparatively out of danger her husband now was.
The hunter's wife insisted that Tom remain to dinner, and as he had
made up his mind he would have to devote two days instead of one to the
trip to his house, he consented.

The fog lifted that afternoon, and Tom, rejoicing in the sunlight,
which drove away the storm clouds, speeded up the ARROW until she was
skimming over the lake like a shaft from a bow.

"This is something like," he exclaimed.  "I'll soon be at home, find
everything all right and telephone to dad.  Then I'll sleep in my own
room and start back in the morning."

When Tom was within a few miles of his own boathouse he heard behind
him the "put-put"  of a motor craft.  Turning, he saw the RED STREAK
fairly flying along at some distance from him.

"Andy certainly is getting the speed out of her now," he remarked.
"He'd beat me if we were racing, but the trouble with his boat and
engine is that he can't always depend on it.  I guess he doesn't
understand how to run it.  I wonder if he'll offer to race now?"

But the red-haired owner of the auto boat evidently did not intend to
offer Tom a race.  The RED STREAK went on down the lake, passing the
ARROW about half a mile away.  Then the young inventor saw that Andy
had two other lads in the boat with him.

"Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey, I guess," he murmured.  "Well, they're
a trio pretty much alike.  The farther off they are the better I like
it."

Tom once more gave his attention to his own boat.  He was going at a
fair speed, but not the limit, and he counted on reaching home in about
a half hour.  Suddenly, when he was just congratulating himself on the
smooth-running qualities of his motor, which had not missed an
explosion, the machinery stopped.

"Hello!"  exclaimed the young inventor in some alarm.  "What's up now?"

He quickly shut off the gasoline and went back to the motor.  Now there
are so many things that may happen to a gasoline engine that it would
be difficult to name them all offhand, and Tom, who had not had very
much experience, was at a loss to find what had stopped his machinery.
He tried the spark and found that by touching the wire to the top of
the cylinder, when the proper connection was, made, that he had a hot,
"fat one."  The compression seemed all right and the supply pipe from
the gasoline tank was in perfect order.  Still the motor would not go.
No explosion resulted when he turned the flywheel over, not even when
he primed the cylinder by putting a little gasoline in through the
cocks on the cylinder heads.

"That's funny," he remarked to himself as he rested from his labors and
contemplated the "dead" motor.  "First time it has gone back on me."
The boat was drifting down the lake, and, at the sound of another motor
craft approaching, Tom looked up.  He saw the RED STREAK, containing
Andy Foger and his cronies.  They had observed the young inventor's
plight.

"Want a tow?"  sneered Andy.

"What'll you take for your second-hand boat that won't run?" asked Pete
Bailey.

"Better get out of the way or you might be run down," added Sam
Snedecker.

Tom was too angry and chagrined to reply, and the RED STREAK swept on.

"I'll make her go, if it takes all night!" declared Tom energetically.
Once more he tried to start the motor.  It coughed and sighed, as if in
protest, but would not explode.  Then Tom cried: "The spark plug!
That's where the trouble is, I'll wager.  Why didn't I think of it
before?"

It was the work of but a minute to unscrew the spark plugs from the
tops of the cylinders.  He found that both had such accumulations of
carbon on them that no spark could ever have reached the mixture of
gasoline and air.

"I'll put new ones in," he decided, for he carried a few spare plugs
for emergencies.  Inside of five minutes, with the new plugs in place,
the motor was running better than before.

"Now for home!"  cried Tom, "and if I meet Andy Foger I'll race him
this time."

But the RED STREAK was not in sight, and, a little later, Tom had run
the ARROW into the boathouse, locked the door and was on his way up to
the mansion.

"I suppose Mrs. Baggert and Garret will be surprised to see me," he
remarked.  "Maybe they'll think we don't trust them, by coming back in
this fashion to see that everything is safe.  But then, I suppose, dad
is naturally nervous about some of his valuable machinery and
inventions.  I think I'll find everything all right, though."

As Tom went up the main path and swung off to a side one, which was a
short cut to the house, he saw in the dusk, for it was now early
evening, a movement in the bushes that lined the walk.

"Hello, Garret!"  exclaimed the lad, taking it for granted it was the
engineer employed by Mr. Swift.

There was no reply, and Tom, with a sudden suspicion, sprang toward the
bushes.  The shrubbery was more violently agitated and, as the lad
reached the screen of foliage, he saw a man spring up from the ground
and take to his heels.

"Here!  Who are you?  What do you want?"  yelled Tom.

Hardly had he spoken when from behind a big apple tree another man
sprung.  It was light enough so that the lad could see his face, and a
glimpse of it caused him to cry out:

"Happy Harry, the tramp!"

Before he could call again the two men had disappeared.




CHAPTER XIII

TOM IN DANGER


"Garret!  Garret Jackson!" cried Tom as he struggled through the hedge
of bushes and ran after the men.  "Where are you, Garret?  Come on and
help me chase these men!"

But there came no answer to Tom's hail.  He could not hear the sound of
the retreating footsteps of the men now and concluded that they had
made their escape.  Still he would not give up, but dashed on, slipping
and stumbling, now and then colliding with a tree.

"What can they be doing here?" thought Tom in great anxiety.  "Are they
after some more of dad's inventions because they didn't get his turbine
motor?"

"Hello!  Who's there?  Who are you?" called a voice suddenly.

"Oh, Garret!  Where have you been?" asked the young inventor,
recognizing the tones of his father's keeper.  "I've been calling you.
Some of those scoundrels are around again!"

"Why if it isn't Tom!" ejaculated the engineer.  "However in the world
did you get here?  I thought you were at Sandport."

"I'll explain later, Garret.  Just now I want to catch those men, if I
can."

"Which men?"

"Happy Harry and another one.  I saw them hiding down by the orchard
path.  Come on, they're right ahead of us."

But though they hunted as well as they were able to in the
fast-gathering darkness, there was no trace of the intruders.  They had
to give up, and Tom, after going to the boathouse to see that the ARROW
was all right, returned to the house, where he told the engineer and
housekeeper what had brought him back and how he had surprised the two
men.

"Is everything all right, Garret?" he concluded.  "Dad is nervous and
frightened.  I must telephone him at the hotel to-night and let him
know, for I promised to come back.  I can't, though, until to-morrow."

"Everything is all right as far as I know," answered Jackson.  "I've
kept a careful watch and the burglar alarm has been in working order.
Mrs. Baggert and I haven't been disturbed a single night since you went
away.  It's curious that the men should be here the very night you come
back.  Maybe they followed you."

"I hardly think so, for they didn't know I was coming."

"You can't tell what those fellows know," commented the engineer.
"But, anyhow, I don't suppose they could have gotten here from Sandport
as soon as you did."

"Oh, yes they could, in their automobile," declared Tom.  "But I don't
believe they knew I was coming.  They knew we were away, however, and
thought it would be a good time to steal something, I guess.  Are you
sure nothing has been taken?"

"Perfectly sure, but you and I will take a look around the shop."

They made a hasty examination, but found nothing disturbed and no signs
that anyone had tried to break in.

"I think I'll telephone dad that everything is all right," decided Tom.
"It is as far as his inventions are concerned, and if I tell about
seeing the men it will only worry him.  I can explain that part better
when I see him.  But when I go back, Garret, you will have to be on
your guard, since those men are in the neighborhood."

"I will, Tom.  Don't worry."

Mr. Swift was soon informed by his son over the telephone that nothing
in the shops had been disturbed, and the inventor received the news
with evident satisfaction.  He requested Tom to come back to the hotel
in the morning, in order that the three of them might go for a ride
about the lake in the afternoon, and Tom decided to make an early start.

The night passed without incident, though Tom, who kept the gun Mr.
Duncan had given him in readiness for use, got up several times,
thinking he heard suspicious noises.  After an early breakfast, and
having once more cautioned the engineer and housekeeper to be on their
guard, Tom started back in the ARROW.

As it would not be much out of his way, the young inventor decided to
cut across the lake and stop at the sanitarium, that he might inquire
about Mr. Duncan.  He thought he could speed the ARROW up sufficiently
to make up for any time he might lose, and, with this in mind, he
headed out toward the middle of Lake Carlopa.  The engine was working
splendidly with the new spark plugs, and Tom was wondering if there was
any possible method of getting more revolutions out of the motor.  He
had about come to the conclusion that a new propeller might answer his
purpose when he heard the noise of an approaching boat.  He looked up
quickly and exclaimed:

"Andy Foger again, and Pete and Sam are with him.  It's a wonder he
wouldn't go off on a trip instead of cruising around so near home.
Guess he's afraid he'll get stuck."

Idly Tom watched the RED STREAK.  It was cutting through the water at a
fast rate, throwing up curling foam on either side of the sharp bow.
"He seems to be heading this way," mused Tom.  "Well, I'm not going to
race with him to-day."

Nearer and nearer came the speedy craft, straight for the ARROW.  The
young inventor shifted his helm in order to get out of Andy's course,
but to his surprise he saw that the red haired lad changed the
direction of his own boat.

"Guess he wants to see how close he can come to me," thought our hero.
"Maybe he wants to show how fast he's going."

The RED STREAK was now so close that the features of the occupants
could easily be distinguished.  There were grins on the faces of Andy
and his cronies.

"Get out of the way or we'll run you down!" cried the bully.  "We've
got the right of way."

"Don't you try anything like that!" shouted Tom in some alarm, not that
he was afraid of Andy, but the RED STREAK was getting dangerously near,
and he knew Andy was not a skillful helmsman.  The auto-boat was now
headed directly at the ARROW and coming on speedily.  Andy was bending
over the wheel and Tom had begun to turn his, in order to get well out
of the way of the insolent, squint-eyed lad and his friends.

Suddenly Andy uttered a cry and leaped up.

"Look out!  Look out!" he yelled.  "My steering gear has broken!  I
can't change my course.  Look out!"

The RED STREAK was bearing right down on Tom's boat.

"Shut off your power!  Reverse!" shouted Tom.

Andy seemed confused and did not know what to do.  Sam Snedecker sprang
to the side of his crony, but he knew even less about a motor-boat.  It
looked as if Tom would be run down, and he was in great danger.

But the young inventor did not lose his head.  He put his wheel hard
over and then, leaping to his motor, sent it full speed forward.  Not a
moment too soon had he acted, for an instant later the other boat shot
past the stern of the ARROW, hitting it a severe but glancing blow.
Tom's boat quivered from end to end and he quickly shut off the power.
By this time Andy had succeeded in slowing down his craft.  The young
inventor hastily looked over the side of the ARROW.  One of the rudder
fastenings had been torn loose.

"What do you mean by running me down?" shouted Tom angrily.

"I--I didn't do it on purpose," returned Andy contritely.  "I was
seeing how near I could come to you when my steering gear broke.  I
hope I haven't damaged you."

"My rudder's broken," went on Tom "and I've got to put back to repair
it.  I ought to have you arrested for this!"

"I'll pay for the damage," replied Andy, and he was so frightened that
he was white, in spite of his tan and freckles.

"That won't do me any good now," retorted Tom.  "It will delay me a
couple of hours.  If you try any tricks like that again, I'll complain
to the authorities and you won't be allowed to run a boat on this lake."

Andy knew that his rival was in the right and did not reply.  The bully
and his cronies busied themselves over the broken steering gear, and
the young inventor, finding that he could make a shift to get back to
his boathouse, turned his craft around and headed for there, in order
to repair the damage.




CHAPTER XIV

THE ARROW DISAPPEARS


Paying no heed to the occupants of the bully's boat, who, by reason of
their daring, had been responsible for his accident that might have
resulted seriously, Tom was soon at his dock.  He had it conveniently
arranged for hoisting craft out of the water to repair them, and in a
few minutes the stern of the ARROW was elevated so that he could get at
the rudder.

"Well, it's not as bad as I thought," he remarked when, with critical
eye, he had noted the damage done.  "I can fix it in about an hour if
Garret helps me."

Going up to the house to get some tools and to tell the engineer that
he had returned, Tom looked out over the lake and saw Andy's boat
moving slowly off.

"They've got her fixed up in some kind of shape," he murmured.  "It's a
shame for a chump like Andy to have a good boat like that.  He'll spoil
it in one season.  He's getting altogether too reckless.  First thing
he knows, he and I will have a clash and I'll pay back some of the old
scores."

Mr. Jackson was much surprised to see the young inventor home again so
soon, as was also Mrs. Baggert.  Tom explained what had happened, and
he and the engineer went to work repairing the damage done by the RED
STREAK.  As the owner of the ARROW had anticipated, the work did not
take long, and, shortly before dinner time, the boat was ready to
resume the interrupted trip to Sandport.

"Better stay and have lunch," urged Mrs. Baggert.  "You can hardly get
to the hotel by night, anyhow, and maybe it would be better not to
start until to-morrow."

"No, I must get back to-night or dad would be worried," declared Tom.
"I've been gone longer now than I calculated on.  But I will have
dinner here, and, if necessary, I can do the last half of the trip
after dark.  I know the way now and I have a compass and a good
searchlight."

The ARROW was let down into the water again and tied outside the
boathouse ready for a quick start.  The dinner Mrs. Baggert provided
was so good that Tom lingered over it longer than he meant to, and he
asked for a second apple dumpling with hard sauce on.  So it was with a
very comfortable feeling indeed and with an almost forgiving spirit
toward Andy Foger that our hero started down the path to the lake.

"Now for a quick run to Sandport," he said aloud.  "I hope I shan't see
any more of those men and that dad hasn't been bothered by them.  His
suspicions about the house weren't altogether unfounded, for I did see
the tramp and some one else sneaking around, but I don't believe
they'll come back now."

Tom swung around the path that led to the dock.  As he came in sight of
the water, he stared as if he could not believe what he saw, or,
rather, what he did not see.  For there was no craft tied to the
string-piece, where he had fastened his motor-boat.  He looked again,
rubbed his eyes to make sure and then cried out:

"The ARROW is gone!"

There was no doubt of it.  The craft was not at the dock.  Breaking
into a run, Tom hastened to the boathouse.  The ARROW was not in there,
and a look across the lake showed only a few rowboats in sight.

"That's mighty funny," mused the youth.  "I wonder--"

He paused suddenly in his thoughts.

"Maybe Garret took it out to try and see that it worked all right," he
said hopefully.  "He knows how to run a boat.  Maybe he wanted to see
how the rudder behaved and is out in it now.  He got through dinner
before I did.  But I should have thought he'd have said something to me
if he was going out in it."

This was the one weak point in Tom's theory, and he felt it at once.

"I'll see if Garret is in his shop," he went on as he turned back
toward the house.

The first person he met as he headed for the group of small structures
where Mr. Swift's inventive work was carried on was Garret Jackson, the
engineer.

"I--I thought you were out in my boat!" stammered Tom.

"Your boat!  Why would I be out in your boat?" and Mr. Jackson removed
his pipe from his mouth and stared at the young inventor.

"Because it's gone!"

"Gone!" repeated the engineer, and then Tom told him.  The two hurried
down to the dock, but the addition of another pair of eyes was of no
assistance in locating the ARROW.  The trim little motor craft was
nowhere to be seen.

"I can't understand it," said Tom helplessly.  "I wasn't gone more than
an hour at dinner, and yet--"

"It doesn't take long to steal a motor-boat," commented the engineer.

"But I think I would have heard them start it," went on the lad.
"Maybe it drifted off, though I'm sure I tied it securely."

"No, there's not much likelihood of that.  There's no wind to-day and
no currents in the lake.  But it could easily have been towed off by
some one in a rowboat and then you would not have heard the motor
start."

"That's so," agreed the youth.  "That's probably how they did it.  They
sneaked up here in a rowboat and towed the ARROW off.  I'm sure of it."

"And I'll wager I know who did it," exclaimed Mr. Jackson energetically.

"Who?" demanded Tom quickly.

"Those men who were sneaking around--Happy Harry and his gang.  They
stole the boat once and they'd do it again.  Those men took your boat,
Tom."

The young inventor shook his head.

"No," he answered, "I don't believe they did."

"Why not?"

"Well, because they wouldn't dare come back here when they knew we're
on the lookout for them.  It would be too risky."

"Oh, those fellows don't care for risk," was the opinion of Mr.
Jackson.  "Take my word for it, they have your boat.  They have been
keeping watch, and as soon as they saw the dock unprotected they
sneaked up and stole the ARROW."

"I don't think so," repeated Mr. Swift's son.

"Who do you think took it then?"

"Andy Foger!" was the quick response.  "I believe he and his cronies
did it to annoy me.  They have been trying to get even with me-or at
least Andy has--for outbidding him on this boat.  He's tried several
times, but he hasn't succeeded--until now.  I'm sure Andy Foger has my
boat," and Tom, with a grim tightening of his lips, swung around as
though to start in instant pursuit.

"Where are you going?" asked Mr. Jackson.

"To find Andy and his cronies.  When I locate them I'll make them tell
me where my boat is."

"Hadn't you better send some word to your father?  You can hardly get
to Sandport now, and he'll be worried about you."

"That's so, I will.  I'll telephone dad that the boat--no, I'll not do
that either, for he'd only worry and maybe get sick.  I'll just tell
him I've had a little accident, that Andy ran into me and that I can't
come back to the hotel for a day or two.  Maybe I'll be lucky to find
my boat in that time.  But dad won't worry then, and, when I see him, I
can explain.  That's what I'll do," and Tom was soon talking to Mr.
Swift by telephone.

The inventor was very sorry his son could not come back to rejoin him
and Ned, but there was no help for it, and, with as cheerful voice as
he could assume, the lad promised to start for Sandport at the earliest
opportunity.

"Now to find Andy and my boat!" Tom exclaimed as he hung up the
telephone receiver.




CHAPTER XV

A DISMAYING STATEMENT


Trouble is sometimes good in a way; it makes a person resourceful.  Tom
Swift had had his share of annoyances of late, but they had served a
purpose.  He had learned to think clearly and quickly.  Now, when he
found his boat stolen, he at once began to map out a plan of action.

"What will you do first?" asked Mr. Jackson as he saw his employer's
son hesitating.

"First I'm going to Andy Foger's house," declared the young inventor.
"If he's home I'm going to tell him what I think of him.  If he's not,
I'm going to find him."

"Why don't you take your sailboat and run down to his dock?" suggested
the engineer.  "It isn't as quick as your motor-boat, but it's better
than walking."

"So it is," exclaimed the lad.  "I will use my catboat.  I had
forgotten all about it of late.  I'm glad you spoke."

He was soon sailing down the lake in the direction of the boathouse on
the waterfront of Mr. Foger's property.  It needed but a glance around
the dock to show him that the RED STREAK was not there, but Tom
recollected the accident to the steering gear and thought perhaps Andy
had taken his boat to some wharf where there was a repair shop and
there left it to return home himself.  But inquiry of Mrs. Foger, who
was as nice a woman as her son was a mean lad, gave Tom the information
that his enemy was not at home.

"He telephoned to me that his boat was damaged," said Mrs. Foger
gently, "and that he had taken it to get fixed.  Then, he said, he and
some friends were going on a little cruise and might not be back
to-night."

"Did he say where he was going?" asked our hero, who did not tell
Andy's mother why he wanted to see her son.

"No, and I'm worried about him.  Sometimes I think Andy is too--well,
too impetuous, and I'm afraid he will get into trouble."

Tom, in spite of his trouble, could hardly forbear smiling.  Andy's
mother was totally unaware of the mean traits of her son and thought
him a very fine chap.  Tom was not going to undeceive her.

"I'm afraid something will happen to him," she went on.  "Do you think
there is any danger being out on the lake in a motor-boat, Mr. Swift?
I understand you have one."

"Yes, I have one," answered Tom.  He was going to say he had once had
one, but thought better of it.  "No, there is very little danger this
time of year," he added.

"I am very glad to hear you say so," went on Mrs. Foger with a sigh.
"I shall feel more at ease when Andy is away now.  When he returns
home, I shall tell him you called upon him and he will return your
visit.  I am glad to see that the custom of paying calls has not died
out among the present generation.  It is a pleasant habit, and I am
glad to have my son conform to it.  He shall return your kind visit."

"Oh, no, it's of no consequence," replied Tom quickly, thinking grimly
that his visit was far from a friendly one.  "There is no need to tell
your son I was here.  I will probably see him in a day or two.

"Oh, but I shall tell him," insisted Mrs. Foger with a kind smile.
"I'm sure he will appreciate your call."

There was much doubt concerning this in the mind of the young inventor,
but he did not express it and soon took his leave.  Up and down the
lake for the rest of the day he cruised, looking in vain for a sight of
Andy Foger in the RED STREAK, but the racing boat appeared to be well
hidden.

"If I only could find where they've taken mine," mused Tom.  "Hang it
all, this is rotten luck!" and for the first time he began to feel
discouraged.

"Maybe you'd better notify the police," suggested Mr. Jackson when Tom
returned to the Swift house that night.  "They might help locate it."

"I think I can do as well as the police," answered the youth.  "If the
boat is anywhere it's on the lake, and the police have no craft in
which to make a search."

"That's so," agreed the engineer.  "I wish I could help you, but I
don't believe it would be wise for me to leave the house, especially
since those men have been about lately."

"No, you must stay here," was Tom's opinion.  "I'll take another day or
two to search.  By this time Andy and his gang will return, I'm sure,
and I can tackle them."

"Suppose they don't?"

"Well, then I'll make a tour of the lake in my sailboat and I'll run up
to Sandport and tell dad, for he will wonder what's keeping me.  I'll
know better next time than to leave my boat at the dock without taking
out the connection at the spark coil, so no one can start the motor.  I
should have done that at first, but you always think of those things
afterward."

The lad began his search again the next morning and cruised about in
little bays and gulfs looking for a sight of the RED STREAK or the
ARROW, but he saw neither, and a call at Andy's house showed that the
red-haired youth had not returned.  Mrs. Foger was quite nervous over
her son's continued absence, but Mr. Foger thought it was all right.

Another day passed without any results and the young inventor was
getting so nervous, partly with worrying over the loss of his boat and
partly on his father's account, that he did not know what to do.

"I can't stand it any longer," he announced to Mrs. Baggert the night
of the third day, after a telephone message had been received from Mr.
Swift.  The inventor wanted to know why his son did not return to the
hotel to join him and Ned.  "Well, what will you do?" asked the
housekeeper.

"If I don't find my boat to-morrow, I'll sail to Sandport, bring home
dad and Ned and we three will go all over the lake.  My boat must be on
it somewhere, but Lake Carlopa is so cut up that it could easily be
hidden."

"It's queer that the Foger boy doesn't come home.  That makes it look
as if he was guilty."

"Oh, I'm sure he took it all right," returned Tom.  "All I want is to
see him.  It certainly is queer that he stays away as long as he does.
Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey are with him, too.  But they'll have to
return some time."

Tom dreamed that night of finding his boat and that it was a wreck.  He
awoke, glad to find that the latter part was not true, but wishing that
some of his night vision might come to pass during the day.

He started out right after breakfast, and, as usual, headed for the
Foger home.  He almost disliked to ask Mrs. Foger if her son had yet
returned, for Andy's mother was so polite and so anxious to know
whether any danger threatened that Tom hardly knew how to answer her.
But he was saved that embarrassment on this occasion, for as he was
going up the walk from the lake to the residence he met the gardener
and from him learned that Andy had not yet come back.

"But his mother had a message from him, I did hear," went on the man.
"He's on his way.  It seems he had some trouble."

"Trouble.  What kind of trouble?" asked Tom.

"I don't rightly know, sir, but," and here the gardener winked his eye,
"Master Andy isn't particular what kind of trouble he gets into."

"That's right," agreed our hero, and as he went down again to where he
had left his boat he thought: "Nor what kind of trouble he gets other
people into.  I wish I had hold of him for about five minutes!"

The sailboat swung slowly from the dock and heeled over to the gentle
breeze.  Hardly knowing what to do, Tom headed for the middle of the
lake.  He was discouraged and tired of making plans only to have them
fail.

As he looked across the stretch of water he saw a boat coming toward
him.  He shaded his eyes with his hand to see better, and then, with a
pair of marine glasses, took an observation.  He uttered an exclamation.

"That's the RED STREAK as sure as I'm alive!" he cried.  "But what's
the matter with her?  They're rowing!"

The lad headed his boat toward the approaching one.  There was no doubt
about it.  It was Andy Foger's craft, but it was not speeding forward
under the power of the motor.  Slowly and laborious the occupants were
pulling it along, and as it was not meant to be rowed, progress was
very slow.

"They've had a breakdown," thought Tom. "Serves 'em right!  Now wait
till I tackle 'em and find out where my boat is.  I've a good notion to
have Andy Foger arrested!"

The sailing craft swiftly approached the motor-boat.  Tom could see the
three occupants looking at him, apprehensively as well as curiously, he
thought.

"Guess they didn't think I'd keep after 'em," mused the young inventor,
and a little later he was beside the RED STREAK.

"Well," cried Tom angrily, "it's about time you came back!"

"We've had a breakdown," remarked Andy, and he seemed quite humiliated.
He was beginning to find out that he didn't know as much about a
motor-boat as he thought he did.

"I've been waiting for you," went on Tom.

"Waiting for us?  What for?" asked Sam Snedecker.

"What for?  As if you didn't know!" blurted out the owner of the ARROW.
"I want my boat, Andy Foger, the one you stole from me and hid!  Tell
me where it is at once or I'll have you arrested!"

"Your boat!" repeated the bully, and there was no mistaking the
surprise in his tones.

"Yes, my boat!  Don't try to bluff me like that."

"I'm not trying to bluff you.  We've been away, three days and just got
back."

"Yes, I know you have.  You took my boat with you, too."

"Are you crazy?" demanded Pete Bailey.

"No, but you fellows must have been to think you could take my boat and
me not know it," and Tom, filled with wrath, grasped the gunwale of the
RED STREAK as if he feared it would suddenly shoot away.

"Look here!" burst out Andy, and he spoke sincerely, "we didn't touch
your boat.  Did we, fellows?"

"No!" exclaimed Sam and Pete at once, and they were very much in
earnest.

"We didn't even know it was stolen, did we?" went on Andy.

"No," agreed his chums.  Tom looked unconvinced.

"We haven't taken your boat and we can prove it," continued the bully.
"I know you and I have had quarrels, but I'm telling you the truth, Tom
Swift.  I never touched your boat."

There was no mistaking the sincerity of Andy.  He was not a skilful
deceiver, and Tom, looking into his squint-eyes, which were opened
unusually wide, could not but help believing the fellow.

"We haven't seen it since the day we had the collision," added Andy,
and his chums confirmed this statement.

"We went off on a little cruise," continued the red-haired bully, "and
broke down several times.  We had bad luck.  Just as we were nearing
home something went wrong with the engine again.  I never saw such a
poor motor.  But we never took your boat, Tom Swift, and we can prove
it."

Tom was in despair.  He had been so sure that Andy was the thief, that
to believe otherwise was difficult.  Yet he felt that he must.  He
looked at the disabled motor of the RED STREAK and viewed it with the
interested and expert eye of a machinist, no matter if the owner of it
was his enemy.  Then suddenly a brilliant idea came into Tom's head.




CHAPTER XVI

STILL ON THE SEARCH


"You seem to have lots of trouble with your boat, Andy," said Tom after
a few moments of rather embarrassed silence.

"I do," admitted the owner of the RED STREAK.  "I've had bad luck ever
since I got it, but usually I've been able to fix it by looking in the
book.  This time I can't find out what the trouble is, nor can any of
the fellows.  It stopped when we were out in the middle of the lake and
we had to row.  I'm sick of motor boating."

"Suppose I fix it for you?" went on Tom.

"If you do, I'll pay you well."

"I wouldn't do it for pay--not the kind you mean," continued the young
inventor.

"What do you mean then?" and Andy's face, that had lighted up, became
glum again.

"Well, if I fix your boat for you, will you let me run it a little
while?"

"You mean show me how to run it?"

"No, I mean take it myself.  Look here, Andy, my boat's been stolen,
and I thought you took it to get even with me.  You say you didn't--"

"And I didn't touch it," interposed the squint-eyed lad quickly.

"All right, I believe you.  But somebody stole it, and I think I know
who."

"Who?" asked Sam Snedecker.

"Well, you wouldn't know if I told you, but I suspect some men with
whom I had trouble before," and Tom referred to Happy Harry and his
gang.  "I think they have my boat on this lake, and I'd like to get
another speedy craft to cruise about it and make a further search.  How
about it, Andy?  If I fix your boat, will you let me take it to look
for my boat?"

"Sure thing!" agreed the bully quickly, and his voice for once was
friendly toward Tom.  "Fix the engine so it will run, and you can use
the RED STREAK as long as you like."

"Oh, I probably wouldn't want it very long.  I could cover the lake in
about three days, and I hope by that time I could locate the thieves.
Is it a bargain?"

"Sure," agreed Andy again, and Tom got into the motor-boat to look at
the engine.  He found that it would require some time to adjust it
properly and that it would be necessary to take the motor apart.

"I think I'd better tow you to my dock," the young inventor said to
Andy.  "I can use some tools from the shop then, and by to-night I'll
have the RED STREAK in running order."

The breeze was in the right quarter, fortunately, and with the
motor-boat dragging behind, the ARROW's owner put the nose of the
sailing craft toward his home dock.

When Tom reached his house he found that Mrs. Baggert had received
another telephone message from Mr. Swift, inquiring why his son had not
returned to Sandport.

"He says if you don't come back by to-morrow," repeated the
housekeeper, "that he'll come home by train.  He's getting anxious, I
believe."

"Shouldn't wonder," admitted Tom.  "But I want him to stay there.  The
change will do him good.  I'll soon have my boat back, now that I can
go about the lake swiftly, and then I'll join him.  I'll tell him to be
patient."

Tom talked with his father at some length, assuring him that everything
was well at the Shopton house and promising to soon be with him.  Then
the young inventor began work on the motor of the RED STREAK.  He found
it quite a job and had to call on Mr. Jackson to help him, for one of
the pistons had to be repaired and a number of adjustments made to the
cylinders.

But that night the motor was fully mended and placed back in the boat.
It was in better shape than it had been since Andy had purchased the
craft.

"There," remarked Tom, "now I'm ready to hunt for those scoundrels.
Will you leave your boat at my dock to-night, Andy?"

"Yes, so you can start out early in the morning.  I'm not going."

"Why not?" demanded Tom quickly.

"Well--er--you see I've had enough of motoring for a while," explained
Andy.  "Besides, I don't believe my mother would like me to go out on a
chase after thieves.  If we had to shoot I might hit one of them, and--"

"Oh, I see," answered Tom.  "But I don't like to take your boat alone.
Besides, I don't fancy there will be much shooting.  I know I'm not
going to take a gun.  In fact, the one Mr. Duncan gave me is in the
boat.  All I want is to get the ARROW back."

"That's all right," went on Andy.  "You take my boat and use it as long
as you like.  I'll rest up a few days.  When you find your boat you can
bring mine back."

Tom understood.  He was just as glad not to have Andy accompany him in
the chase, as he and the red-haired lad had never been good friends and
probably never would be.  So it would cause some embarrassment to be
together in a boat all day.  Then again Tom knew he could manage the
RED STREAK better alone, but, of course, he did not want to mention
this when he asked for the loan of the craft.  Andy's own suggestion,
however, had solved the difficulty.  Tom had an idea that Andy felt a
little timid about going in pursuit of the thieves, but naturally it
would not do to mention this, for the squint-eyed lad considered
himself quite a fighter.

Early the next morning, alone in the RED STREAK, Tom continued the
search for his stolen boat.  He started out from his home dock and
mapped out a course that would take him well around the lake.

"I s'pose I could take a run to Sandport now," mused the youth as he
shot in and out of the little bays, keeping watch for the ARROW.  "But
if I do dad will have to be told all about it, and, he'll worry.  Then,
too, he might want to accompany me, and I think I can manage this
better alone, for the RED STREAK will run faster with only one in.  I
ought to wind up this search in two days, if my boat is still on the
lake.  And if those scoundrels have sunk her I'll make them pay for it."

On shot the speedy motor-boat, in and out along the winding shoreline,
with the lad in the bow at the steering-wheel peering with eager eyes
into every nook and corner where his craft might be hidden.




CHAPTER XVII

"THERE SHE IS!"


Anticipating that he would be some time on his search, the young
inventor had gone prepared for it.  He had a supply of provisions and
he had told Mrs. Baggert he might not be back that night.  But he did
not intend to sleep aboard the RED STREAK, which, being a racing boat,
was not large enough to afford much room for passengers.  Tom had
planned, therefore, to put up at some hotel near the lake in case his
hunt should last beyond one night.

That it would do this was almost certain, for all that morning he
searched unavailingly for the ARROW.  A distant mill whistle sounding
over Lake Carlopa told him it was noon.

"Dinner time," he announced to himself.  "Guess I'll run up along shore
in the shade and eat."

Selecting a place where the trees overhung the water, forming a quiet,
cool nook, Tom sent the boat in there, and, tying it to a leaning tree,
he began his simple meal.  Various thoughts filled his mind, but chief
among them was the desire to overtake the thieves who had his boat.
That it was Happy Harry's gang he was positive.

The lad nearly finished eating and was considering what direction he
might best search in next when he heard, running along a road that
bordered the lake, an automobile.

"Wonder who that is?" mused Tom.  "It won't do any harm to take a look,
for it might be some of those thieves again.  They probably still have
their auto or Happy Harry couldn't have gotten from Sandport to Shopton
so quickly."

The young inventor slipped ashore from the motor-boat, taking care to
make no noise.  Stealing silently along toward the road, he peered
through the underbrush for a sight of the machine, which seemed to be
going slowly.  But before the youth had a glimpse of it he was made
aware who the occupant was by hearing someone exclaim:

"Bless my shoe laces if this cantankerous contraption isn't going wrong
again!  I wonder if it's going to have a fit here in this lonely place.
It acts just as if it was.  Bless my very existence! Hold on now.  Be
nice!  Be nice!"

"Mr. Damon!" exclaimed Tom, and, without knowing it, he had spoken
aloud.

"Hold on there!  Hold on!  Who's calling me in this forsaken locality?
Bless my shirt studs!  But who is it?" and the eccentric man who had
sold Tom the motor-cycle looked intently at the bushes.

"Here I am, Mr. Damon," answered the lad, stepping out into the road.
"I knew it was you as soon as I saw you."

"Bless my liver, but that's very true!  I suppose you heard my
unfortunate automobile puffing along.  I declare I don't know what ails
it.  I got it on the advice of my physician, who said I must get out in
the air, but, bless my gears, it's the auto who needs a doctor more
than I do!  It's continually out of order.  Something is going to
happen right away.  I can tell by the way it's behaving."

Mr. Damon had thrown out the clutch, but the engine was still running,
though in a jerky, uncertain fashion, which indicated to the trained
ear of the young inventor that something was wrong.

"Perhaps I can fix it for you as I did before," ventured Tom.

"Bless my eyebrows!  Perhaps you can," cried the eccentric man
hopefully.  "You always seem to turn up at the right moment.  How do
you manage it?"

"I don't know.  I remember the time you turned up just when I wanted
you to help me capture Happy Harry and his gang, and now, by, a strange
coincidence, I'm after them again."

"You don't say so!  My good gracious!  Bless my hatband!  But that's
odd.  There!" he ejaculated suddenly as the automobile engine stopped
with a choking sigh, "I knew something was going to happen."

"Let me take a look," proposed the lad, and he was soon busy peering
into the interior of the machine.  At first he could not find the
trouble, but being a persistent youth, Tom went at it systematically
and located it in two places.  The clutch was not rightly adjusted and
the carburetor float feed needed fixing.  The young inventor was not
long in making the slight repairs and then he assured Mr. Damon that
his automobile would run properly.

"Bless my very existence, but what a thing it is to have a head for
mechanics!" exclaimed the odd man gratefully.  "Now it would bother me
to adjust a nutmeg grater if it got out of order, but I dare say you
could fix it in no time."

"Yes," answered Tom, "I could and so could you, for there's nothing
about it to fix.  But you can go ahead now if you wish."

"Thank you.  It just shows how ignorant I am of machinery.  I presume
something will go wrong in another mile or two.  But may I ask what you
are doing here?  I presume you are in your motor-boat, sailing about
for pleasure.  And didn't I understand you to say you were after those
chaps again?  Bless my watch charm, but I was so interested in my
machine that I didn't think to ask you."

"Yes, I am after those thieves again."

"In your motor-boat, I presume.  Well, I hope you catch them.  What
have they stolen now?"

"My motor-boat.  That's why I'm after them, but I had to borrow a craft
to chase them with."

"Bless my soul!  You don't tell me!  How did it happen?"

Thereupon the lad related as much of the story as was necessary to put
Mr. Damon in possession of the facts and he ended up with:

"I don't suppose you have seen anything of the men in my boat, have
you?"

Mr. Damon seemed strangely excited.  He had entered his auto, but as
the lad's story progressed the odd gentleman had descended.  When Tom
finished he exclaimed:

"Don't say a word now--not a word.  I want to think, and that is a
process, which, for me, requires a little time.  Don't speak a word
now.  Bless my left hand, but I think I can help you!"

He frowned, stamped first one foot, then the other, looked up at the
sky, as if seeking inspiration there, and then down at the ground, as
if that would help him to think.  Then he clapped his hands smartly
together and cried out:

"Bless my shoe buttons!"

"Have you seen them?" asked Tom eagerly.

"Was your boat one with a red arrow painted on the bow?" asked Mr.
Damon in turn.

"It was!" and the lad was now almost as excited as was his friend.

"Then I've seen it and, what's more, this morning!  Bless my spark
plug, I've seen it!"

"Tell me about it!" pleaded the young inventor, and Mr. Damon, calming
himself after an effort, resumed:

"I was out for an early spin in my auto," he said, "and was traveling
along a road that bordered the lake, about fifteen miles above here.  I
heard a motor-boat puffing along near shore, and, looking through the
trees, I saw one containing three men.  It had a red arrow on the bow,
and that's why I noticed it, because I recalled that your boat was
named the DART."

"ARROW," corrected Tom.

"The ARROW.  Oh, yes, I knew it was something like that.  Well of
course at the time I didn't think that it was your boat, but I
associated it in my mind with yours.  Do you catch my meaning?"

Tom did and said so, wishing Mr. Damon would hurry and get to the
point.  But the eccentric character had to do things in his own way.

"Exactly," he resumed. "Well, I didn't think that was your boat, but,
at the same time, I watched the men out of curiosity, and I was struck
with their behavior. They seemed to be quarreling, and, from what I
could hear, two of them seemed to be remonstrating with the third one
for having taken some sort of a piece of wood from the forward
compartment. I believe that is the proper term."

"Yes!" Tom almost shouted.  "But where did they go?  What became of
them?  What was the man doing to the forward compartment--where the
gasoline tank is?"

"Exactly.  I was trying to think what was kept there.  That's it, the
gasoline tank.  Well, the boat kept on up the lake, and I don't know
what became of the men.  But about that piece of wood.  It seems that
one of the men removed a block, from under the tank and the others
objected.  That's why they were quarreling."

"That's very strange," exclaimed the lad.  "There must be some mystery
about my boat that I don't understand.  But that will keep until I get
the boat itself.  Good-by, Mr. Damon.  I must be off."

"Where to?"

"Up the lake after those thieves.  I must lose no time," and Tom
started to go back to where he had left the RED STREAK.

"Hold on!" cried Mr. Damon.  "I have something to propose, Tom.  Two
heads are better than one, even if one doesn't know how to adjust a
nutmeg grate.  Suppose I come along with you?  I can point out the
direction the men took, at any rate."

"I'll be very glad to have you," answered the lad, who felt that he
might need help if there were three of the thieves in his craft.  "But
what will you do with your automobile?"

"I'll just run it down the road a way to where a friend of mine has a
stable.  I'll leave it in there and join you.  Will you let me come?
Bless my eye glasses, but I'd like to help catch those scoundrels!"

"I'll be very glad to have you.  Go ahead, put the auto in the barn and
I'll wait for you."

"I have a better plan than that," replied Mr. Damon.  "Run your boat
down to that point," and he indicated one about a mile up the lake.
"I'll be there waiting for you, and we'll lose no time.  I can cover
the ground faster in my auto than you can in your boat."

Tom saw the advantage of this and was soon under way, while he heard on
shore the puffing of his friend's car.  On the trip to the point Tom
puzzled over the strange actions of the man in taking one of the braces
from under the gasoline tank.

"I'll wager he did it before," thought the lad.  "It must be the same
person who was tampering with the lock of the forward compartment the
day I bought the boat.  But why--that's the question--why?"

He could find no answer to this, puzzle over it as he did, and he gave
it up.  His whole desire now was to get on the trail of the thieves,
and he had strong hopes, after the clew Mr. Damon had given him.  The
latter was waiting for him on the point, and so nimble was the owner of
the auto, in spite of his size, that Tom was not delayed more than the
fraction of a minute ere he was under way again, speeding up the lake.

"Now keep well in toward shore," advised Mr. Damon.  "Those fellows
don't want to be observed any more than they can help, and they'll
sneak along the bank, They were headed in that direction," and he
pointed it out.  "Now I hope you won't think I'm in the way.  Besides,
you know, if you get your boat back, you'll want some one to help steer
it, while you run this one.  I can do that, at all events, bless my
very existence!"

"I am very glad of your help," replied the lad, but he did not take his
eyes from the water before him, and he was looking for a sight of his
boat with the men in it.

For three hours or more Tom and Mr. Damon cruised in and out along the
shore of the lake, going farther and farther up the body of water.  Tom
was beginning to think that he would reach Sandport without catching
sight of the thieves, and he was wondering if, after all, he might not
better stop off and see his father when, above the puffing of the motor
in the RED STREAK, he heard the put-put of another boat.

"Listen!" cried Mr. Damon, who had heard it at the same time.

Tom nodded.

"They're just ahead of us," whispered his companion.

"If it's them," was the lad's reply.

"Speed up and we'll soon see," suggested Mr. Damon, and Tom shoved the
timer over.  The RED STREAK forged ahead.  The sound of the other boat
came more plainly now.  It was beyond a little point of land.  The
young inventor steered out to get around it and leaned eagerly forward
to catch the first glimpse of the unseen craft.  Would it prove to be
the ARROW?

The put-put became louder now.  Mr. Damon was standing up, as if that
would, in some mysterious way, help.  Then suddenly the other boat came
into view.  Tom saw it in an instant and knew it for the ARROW.

"There she is!" he cried.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE PURSUIT


For an instant after Tom's exultant cry the men in the boat ahead were
not aware that they were being pursued.  Then, as the explosions from
the motor of the RED STREAK sounded over the water, they turned to see
who was coming up behind them.  There was no mistaking the attitude of
the young inventor and his companion.  They were leaning eagerly
forward, as if they could reach out and grasp the criminals who were
fleeing before them.

"Put on all the speed you can, Tom!" begged Mr. Damon.  "We'll catch
the scoundrels now.  Speed up the motor!  Oh, if I only had my
automobile now.  Bless my crank shaft, but one can go so much faster on
land than on water."

The lad did not reply, but thought, with grim humor, that running an
automobile over Lake Carlopa would be no small feat.  Mr. Damon,
however, knew what he was saying.

"We'll catch them!  We'll nab 'em!" he cried.  "Speed her up, Tom."

The youth was doing his best with the motor of the RED STREAK.  He was
not as well acquainted with it as he was with the one in his boat, but
he knew, even better than Andy Foger, how to make it do efficient work.
It was a foregone conclusion that the RED STREAK, if rightly handled,
could beat the ARROW, but there were several points in favor of the
thieves.  The motor of Tom's boat was in perfect order, and even an
amateur, with some knowledge of a boat, could make it do nearly its
best.  On the other hand, the RED STREAK's machinery needed "nursing."
Again, the thieves had a good start, and that counted for much.  But
Tom counted on two other points.  One was that Happy Harry and his gang
would probably know little about the fine points of a motor.  They had
shown this in letting the motor of the boat they had first stolen get
out of order, and Tom knew the ins and outs of a gasoline engine to
perfection.  So the chase was not so hopeless as it seemed.

"Do you think you can catch them?" asked Mr. Damon anxiously.

"I'm going to make a big try," answered his companion.

"They're heading out into the middle of the lake!" cried the eccentric
man.

"If they do, I can cut them off!" murmured Tom as he put the wheel over.

But whoever was steering the ARROW knew better than to send it on a
course that would enable the pursuing boat to cut across and shorten
the distance to it.  After sending the stolen craft far enough out from
shore to clear points of land that jutted out into the lake, the
leading boat was sent straight ahead.

"A stern chase and a long chase!" murmured Mr. Damon.  "Bless my
rudder, but those fellows are not going to give up easily."

"I guess not," murmured Tom.  "Will you steer for a while, Mr. Damon?"

"Of course I will.  If I could get out and pull the boat after me, to
make it go faster, I would.  But as I always lose my breath when I run,
perhaps it's just as well that I stay in here."  Tom thought so too,
but his attention was soon given to the engine.  He adjusted the timer
to get if possible a little more speed out of the boat he had borrowed
from Andy, and he paid particular attention to the oiling system.

"We're going a bit faster!" called Mr. Damon' encouragingly, "or else
they're slacking up."

Tom peered ahead to see if this was so.  It was hard to judge whether
he was overhauling the ARROW, as it was a stern chase, and that is
always difficult to judge.  But a glimpse along shore showed him that
they were slipping through the water at a faster speed.

"They're up to something!" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Damon a moment later.
"I believe they're going to fire on us, Tom.  They are pointing
something this way."

The lad stood up and gazed earnestly at his boat, which seemed to be
slipping away from him so fast.  One of the occupants was in the stern,
aiming some glittering object at those in the RED STREAK.  For a moment
Tom thought it might be a gun.  Then, as the man turned, he saw what it
was.

"A pair of marine glasses," cried the lad.  "They're trying to make out
who we are."

"I guess they know well enough," rejoined Mr. Damon.  "Can't you go any
faster, Tom?"

"I'm afraid not.  But we'll land them, sooner or later.  They can't go
very far in this direction without running ashore and we'll have them.
They're cutting across the lake now."

"They may escape us if it gets dark.  Probably that's what they're
working for.  They want to keep ahead of us until nightfall."

The young inventor thought of this too, but there was little he could
do.  The motor was running at top speed.  It could be made to go
faster, Tom knew, with another ignition system, but that was out of the
question now.

The man with the glasses had resumed his seat, and the efforts of the
trio seemed concentrated on the motor of the ARROW.  They, too, wished
to go faster.  But they had not skill enough to accomplish it, and in
about ten minutes, when Tom took another long and careful look to
ascertain if possible whether or not he was overhauling the thieves, he
was delighted to see that the distance between the boats had lessened.

"We're catching them!  We're creeping up on them!" cried Mr. Damon.
"Keep it up, Tom."  There was nothing to do, however, save wait.  The
boat ahead had shifted her course somewhat and was now turning in
toward the shore, for the lake was narrow at this point, and abandoning
their evident intention of keeping straight up the lake, the thieves
seemed now bent on something else.

"I believe they're going to run ashore and get out!" cried Mr. Damon.

"If they do, it's just what I want," declared the lad.  "I don't care
for the men.  I want my boat back!"

The occupants of the ARROW were looking to the rear again, and
one--Happy Harry, Tom thought--shook his fist.

"Ah, wait until I get hold of you!" cried Mr. Damon, following his
example.  "I'll make you wish you'd behaved yourselves, you scoundrels!
Bless my overcoat!  Catch them if you can, Tom."

There was now no doubt of the intention of the fleeing ones.  The shore
was looming up ahead and straight for it was headed the ARROW.  Tom
sent Andy's boat in the same direction.  He was rapidly overhauling the
escaping ones now, for they had slowed down the motor.  Three minutes
later the foremost boat grated on the beach of the lake.  The men
leaped out, one of them pausing an instant in the bow.

"Here, don't you damage my boat!" cried Tom involuntarily, for the man
seemed to be hammering something.

The fellow leaped over the side, holding something in his hand.

"There they go!  Catch them!" yelled Mr. Damon.

"Let them go!" answered the lad as the men ran toward the wood.  "I
want my boat.  I'm afraid they've damaged her.  One of them tore
something from the bow."

At the same instant the two companions of the fellow who had paused in
the forward part of the ARROW saw that he had something in his hand.
With yells of rage they dashed at him, but he, shaking his fist at
them, plunged into the bushes and could be heard breaking his way
through, while his companions were in pursuit.

"They've quarreled among themselves," commented Mr. Damon as high and
angry voices could be heard from the woods.  "There's some mystery
here, Tom."

"I don't doubt it, but my first concern is for my boat.  I want to see
if they have damaged her."

Tom had run so closely in shore with the RED STREAK that he had to
reverse to avoid damaging the craft against the bank.  In a mass of
foam he stopped her in time, and then springing ashore, he hurried to
his motor-boat.




CHAPTER XIX

A QUIET CRUISE


"Have they done any damage?" asked Mr. Damon as he stood in the bow of
the RED STREAK.

Tom did not answer for a moment.  His trained eye was looking over the
engine.

"They yanked out the high tension wire instead of stopping the motor
with the switch," he answered at length, and then, when he had taken a
look into the compartment where the gasoline tank was, he added: "And
they've ripped out two more of the braces I put in.  Why in the world
they did that I can't imagine."

"That's evidently what one man had that the others wanted," was Mr.
Damon's opinion.

"Probably," agreed Tom.  "But what could he or they want with wooden
braces?"

That was a puzzler for Mr. Damon, but he answered:

"Perhaps they wanted to damage your boat and those two men were mad
because the other got ahead of them."

"Taking out the braces wouldn't do much damage.  I can easily put
others in.  All it would do would be to cause the tank to sag down and
maybe cause a leak in the pipe.  But that would be a queer thing to do.
No, I think there's some mystery that I haven't gotten to the bottom of
yet.  But I'm going to."

"Good!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.  "I'll help you.  But can you run your
boat back home?"

"Not without fixing it a bit.  I must brace up that tank and put in a
new high-tension wire from the spark coil.  I can do it here, but I'd
rather take it to the shop.  Besides, with two boats to run back, for I
must return Andy's to him, I don't see how I can do it very well unless
you operate one, Mr. Damon."

"Excuse me, but I can't do it.  Bless my slippers, but I would be sure
to run on a rock!  The best plan will be for you to tow your boat and
I'll ride in it and steer.  I can do that much, anyhow.  You can ride
in the RED STREAK."

Tom agreed that this would be a good plan.  So, after temporarily
bracing up the tank in the ARROW, it was shoved out into the lake and
attached to Andy's craft.

"But aren't you going to make a search for those men?" asked Mr. Damon
when Tom was ready to start back.

"No, I think it would be useless.  They are well away by this time, and
I don't fancy chasing them through the woods, especially as night is
coming on.  Besides, I won't leave these boats."

"No doubt you are right, but I would like to see them punished, and I
am curious enough to wish to know what object that scoundrel could have
in ripping out the blocks that served as a brace for the tank."

"I feel the same way myself," commented the lad, "especially since this
is the second time that's happened.  But we'll have to wait, I guess."

A little later the start back was made, Mr. Damon steering the ARROW
skillfully enough so that it did not drag on the leading boat, in which
Tom rode.  His course took him not far from the lake sanitarium, where
Mr. Duncan, the hunter, had been brought, and desiring to know how the
wounded man was getting on, the youth proposed that they make a halt,
explaining to Mr. Damon his reason.

"Yes, and while you're about it you'd better telephone your father that
you will join him to-morrow," suggested the other.  "I know what it is
to fret and worry.  You can fix your boat up in time to go to Sandport
to-morrow, can't you?"

"Yes, I'm glad you reminded me of it.  I'll telephone from the
sanitarium, if they'll let me."

Mr. Duncan was not at the institution, Tom was told, his injury having
healed sufficiently to allow of his being removed to his home.  The
youth readily secured permission to use the telephone, and was soon in
communication with Mr. Swift.  While not telling him all the
occurrences that had delayed him, Tom gave his father and Ned Newton
enough information to explain his absence.  Then the trip to Shopton
was resumed in the two boats.

"What are you going to do about your automobile?" asked Tom as they
neared the point where the machine had been left.

"Never mind about that," replied Mr. Damon.  "It will do it good to
have a night's vacation.  I will go on to your house with you, and
perhaps I can get a train back to my friend's home, so that I can claim
my car."

"Won't you stay all night with me?" invited the young inventor.  "I'd
be glad to have you."

Mr. Damon agreed, and, Tom putting more speed on the RED STREAK, was
soon opposite his own dock.  The ARROW was run in the boathouse and the
owner hastily told Mrs. Baggert and the engineer what had occurred.
Then he took Andy's boat to Mr. Foger's dock and warmly thanked the
red-haired lad for the use of his craft.

"Did you find your boat?" asked Andy eagerly.  "How did the RED STREAK
run?"

"I got my boat and yours runs fine," explained Tom.

"Good!  I'll race you again some day," declared Andy.

Mr. Damon enjoyed his visit at our hero's house, for Mrs. Baggert
cooked one of her best suppers for him.  Tom and the engineer spent the
evening repairing the motor-boat, Mr. Damon looking on and exclaiming
"Bless my shoe leather" or some other part of his dress or anatomy at
every stage of the work.  The engineer wanted to know all about the men
and their doings, but he could supply no reason for their queer actions
regarding the braces under the gasoline tank.

In the morning Tom once more prepared for an early start for Sandport,
and Mr. Damon, reconsidering his plans, rode as far with him as the
place where the automobile had been left.  There he took leave of the
young inventor, promising to call on Mr. Swift in the near future.

"I hope you arrive at the hotel where your father is without any more
accidents," remarked the automobilist.  "Bless my very existence, but
you seem to have the most remarkable series of adventures I ever heard
of!"

"They are rather odd," admitted Tom.  "I don't know that I particularly
care for them, either.  But, now that I have my boat back, I guess
everything will be all right."

But Tom could not look ahead.  He was destined to have still more
exciting times, as presently will be related.

Without further incident he arrived at the Lakeview Hotel in Sandport
that evening and found his father and Ned very glad to see him.  Of
course he had to explain everything then, and, with his son safely in
his sight, Mr. Swift was not so nervous over the recital as he would
have been had Tom not been present.

"Now for some nice, quiet trips," remarked the lad when he had finished
his account.  "I feel as if I had cheated you out of part of your
vacation, Ned, staying away as long as I did."

"Well, of course we missed you," answered his chum.  "But your father
and I had a good time."

"Yes, and I invented a new attachment for a kitchen boiler," added Mr.
Swift.  "I had a chance for it when I passed through the hotel kitchen
one day, for I wanted to see what kind of a range they used."

"I guess there's no stopping you from inventing," replied his son with
a laugh and a hopeless shake of the head.  "But don't let it happen
again when you go away to rest."

"Oh, I only just thought of it," said Mr. Swift.  "I haven't worked the
details out yet."

Then he wanted to know about everything at home and he seemed
particularly anxious lest the Happy Harry gang do some damage.

"I don't believe they will," Tom assured him.  "Garret and Mrs. Baggert
will be on guard."

The next few days were pleasant ones for Tom, his father and Ned
Newton.  They cruised about the lake, went fishing and camped in the
woods.  Even Mr. Swift spent one night in the tent and said he liked it
very much.  For a week the three led an ideal existence, going about as
they pleased, Ned taking a number of photographs with his new camera.
The ARROW proved herself a fine boat, and Tom and Ned, when Mr. Swift
did not accompany them, explored the seldom visited parts of Lake
Carlopa.

The three had been out one day and were discussing the necessity of
returning home soon when Ned spoke.

"I shall hate to give up this life and go to slaving in the bank
again," he complained.  "I wish I was an inventor."

"Oh, we inventors don't have such an easy time," said Mr. Swift.  "You
never know when trouble is coming," and he little imagined how near the
truth he was.

A little later they were at the hotel dock.  When Tom had tied up his
boat the three walked up the path to the broad veranda that faced the
lake.  A boy in uniform met them.

"Some one has just called you on the telephone, Mr. Swift," he reported.

"Some one wants me?  Who is it?"

"I think he said his name is Jackson, sir, Garret Jackson, and he says
the message is very important."

"Tom, something has happened at home!" exclaimed the inventor as he
hurried up the steps.  "I'm afraid there's bad news."

Unable to still the fear in his heart, Tom followed his father.




CHAPTER XX

NEWS OF A ROBBERY


With a hand that trembled so he could scarcely hold the receiver of the
telephone, Mr. Swift placed it to his ear.

"Hello! Hello!" he cried into the transmitter.  "Yes, this is Mr.
Swift--yes, Garret.  What is it?"

Then came a series of clicks, which Tom and Ned listened to.  The
inventor spoke again.

"What's that?  The same men?  Broke in early this evening?  Oh, that's
too bad!  Of course, I'll come at once."

There followed more meaningless clicks, which Tom wished he could
translate.  His father hung up the receiver, turned to him and
exclaimed:

"I've been robbed again!"

"Robbed again!  How, dad?"

"By that same rascally gang, Garret thinks.  This evening, when he and
Mrs. Baggert were in the house the burglar alarm went off.  The
indicator showed that the electrical shop had been entered, and the
engineer hurried there.  He saw a light inside and the shadows of
persons on the windows.  Before he could reach the shop, however, the
thieves heard him coming and escaped.  Oh, Tom, I should never have
come away!"

"But did they take anything, dad?  Perhaps Garret frightened them away
before they had a chance to steal any of your things.  Did you ask him
that?"

"I didn't need to.  He said he made a hasty exanimation before he
called me up, and he is sure a number of my electrical inventions are
missing.  Some of them are devices I never have had patented, and if I
lose them I will have no recovery."

"But just what ones are they?  Perhaps we can send out a police alarm
to-night."

"Garret couldn't tell that," answered Mr. Swift as he paced to and fro
in the hotel office.  "He doesn't know all the tools and machinery I
had in there.  But it is certain that some of my most valuable things
have been taken."

"Never mind.  Don't worry, dad," and Tom tried to speak soothingly, for
he saw that his father was much excited.  "We may be able to get them
back.  How does Garret know the same men who stole the turbine model
broke in the shop this evening?"

"He saw them.  One was Happy Harry, he is positive.  The others he did
not know, but he recognized the tramp from our description of him."

"Then we must tell the police at once."

"Yes, Tom, I wish you would telephone.  I'll give you a description of
the things.  No, I can't do that either, for I don't know what was
stolen.  I must go home at once to find out.  It's a good thing the
motor-boat is here.  Come, let's start at once.  What is my bill here?"
and the inventor turned to the hotel proprietor, who had come into the
office.  "I have suffered a severe loss and must leave at once."

"I am very sorry, sir.  I'll have it ready for you in a few minutes."

"All right.  Tom, is your boat ready for a quick trip?"

"Yes, dad, but I don't like to make it at night with three in.  Of
course it might be perfectly safe, but there's a risk, and I don't like
to take it."

"Don't worry about the risk on my account, Tom.  I'm not afraid.  I
must get home and see of what I have been robbed."

The young inventor was in a quandary.  He wanted to do as his father
requested and to aid him all he could, yet he knew that an all-night
trip in the boat down the lake would be dangerous, not only from the
chance of running on an unknown shore or into a hidden rock, but
because Mr. Swift was not physically fitted to stand the journey.

"Come, Tom," exclaimed the aged inventor impatiently, "we must start at
once!"

"Won't morning do as well, dad?"

"No, I must start now.  I could not sleep worrying over what has
happened.  We will start--"

At that instant there came a low, rumbling peal of thunder.  Mr. Swift
started and peered from a window.  There came a flash of lightning and
another vibrant report from the storm-charged clouds.

"There is your bill, Mr. Swift," remarked the proprietor, coming up,
"but I would not advise you to start to-night.  There is a bad storm in
the west, and it will reach here in a few minutes.  Storms on Lake
Carlopa, especially at this open and exposed end, are not to be
despised, I assure you."

"But I must get home!" insisted Tom's father.

The lace curtain over the window blew almost straight out with a sudden
breeze, and a flash of lightning so bright that it reflected even in
the room where the incandescent electrics were glowing made several
others jump.  Then came a mighty crash, and with that the flood-gates
of the storm were opened, and the rain came down in torrents.  Tom
actually breathed a sigh of relief.  The problem was solved for him.
It would be impossible to start to-night, and he was glad of it, much
as he wanted to get on the trail of the thieves.

There was a scurrying on the part of the hotel attendants to close the
windows, and the guests who had been enjoying the air out on the
porches came running in.  With a rush, a roar and a muttering, as peal
after peal of thunder sounded, the deluge continued.

"It's a good thing we didn't start," observed Ned.

"I should say so," agreed Tom.  "But we'll get off the first thing in
the morning, dad."

Mr. Swift did not reply, but his nervous pacing to and fro in the hotel
office showed how anxious he was to be at home again.  There was no
help for it, however, and, after a time, finding that to think of
reaching his house that night was out of the question, the inventor
calmed down somewhat.

The storm continued nearly all night, as Tom could bear witness, for he
did not sleep well, nor did his father.  And when he came down to
breakfast in the morning Mr. Swift plainly showed the effects of the
bad news.  His face was haggard and drawn and his eyes smarted and
burned from lack of sleep.

"Well, Tom, we must start early," he said nervously.  "I am glad it has
cleared off.  Is the boat all ready?"

"Yes, and it's a good thing it was under shelter last night or we'd
have to bail it out now, and that would delay us."

An hour later they were under way, having telephoned to the engineer at
the Swift home that they were coming.  Garret Jackson reported over the
wire that he had notified the Shopton police of the robbery, but that
little could be done until the inventor arrived to give a description
of the stolen articles.

"And that will do little good, I fear," remarked Tom.  "Those fellows
have evidently been planning this for some time and will cover their
tracks well.  I'd like to catch them, not only to recover your things,
dad, but to find out the mystery of my boat and why the man took the
tank braces."




CHAPTER XXI

THE BALLOON ON FIRE


Down Lake Carlopa speeded the ARROW, those on board watching the banks
slip past as the motor-boat rapidly cut through the water.

"What time do you think we ought to reach home, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Oh, about four o'clock, if we don't stop for lunch."

"Then we'll not stop," decided the inventor.  "We'll eat what we have
on board.  I suppose you have some rations?" and he smiled, the first
time since hearing the bad news.

"Oh, yes, Ned and I didn't eat everything on our camping trips," and
Tom was glad to note that the fine weather which followed the storm was
having a good effect on his father.

"We certainly had a good time," remarked Ned.  "I don't know when I've
enjoyed a vacation so."

"It's too bad it had to be cut short by this robbery," commented Mr.
Swift.

"Oh, well, my time would be up in a few days more," went on the young
bank employee.  "It's just as well to start back now."

Tom took the shortest route he knew, keeping in as close to shore as he
dared, for now he was as anxious to get home as was his father.  On and
on speeded the ARROW, yet fast as it was, it seemed slow to Mr. Swift,
who, like all nervous persons, always wanted to go wherever he desired
to go instantly.

Tom headed his boat around a little point of land, and was urging the
engine to the top notch of speed, for now he was on a clear course,
with no danger from shoals or hidden rocks, when he saw, darting out
from shore, a tiny craft which somehow seemed familiar to him.  He
recognized a peculiar put-putter of the motor.

"That's the DOT," he remarked in a low voice to Ned, "Miss Nestor's
cousin's boat."

"Is she in it now?" asked Ned.

"Yes," answered Tom quickly.

"You've got good eyesight," remarked Ned dryly, "to tell a girl at that
distance.  It looks to me like a boy."

"No, it's Mary--I mean Miss Nestor," the youth quickly corrected
himself, and a close observer would have noticed that he blushed a bit
under his coat of tan.

Ned laughed, Tom blushed still more, and Mr. Swift, who was in a stern
seat, glanced up quickly.

"It looks as if that boat wanted to hail us," the inventor remarked.

Tom was thinking the same thing, for, though he had changed his course
slightly since sighting the DOT, the little craft was put over so as to
meet him.  Wondering what Miss Nestor could want, but being only too
willing to have a chat with her, the young inventor shifted his helm.
In a short time the two craft were within hailing distance.

"How do you do?" called Miss Nestor, as she slowed down her motor.
"Don't you think I'm improving, Mr. Swift?"

"What's that?  I--er--I beg your pardon, but I didn't catch that,"
exclaimed the aged inventor quickly, coming out of a sort of day-dream.
"I beg your pardon."  He thought she had addressed him.

Miss Nestor blushed and looked questioningly at Tom.

"My father," he explained as he introduced his parent.  Ned needed
none, having met Miss Nestor before.  "Indeed you have improved very
much," went on our hero.  "You seem able to manage the boat all alone."

"Yes, I'm doing pretty well.  Dick lets me take the DOT whenever I want
to, and I thought I'd come out for a little trial run this morning.
I'm getting ready for the races.  I suppose you are going to enter
them?" and she steered her boat alongside Tom's, who throttled down his
powerful motor so as not to pass his friend.

"Races?  I hadn't heard of them," he replied.

"Oh, indeed there are to be fine ones under the auspices of the Lanton
Motor Club.  Mr. Hastings, of whom you bought that boat, is going to
enter his new CARLOPA, and Dick has entered the DOT, in the baby class
of course.  But I'm going to run it, and that's why I'm practicing."

"I hope you win," remarked Tom.  "I hadn't heard of the races, but I
think I'll enter.  I'm glad you told me.  Do you want to race now?" and
he laughed as he looked into the brown eyes of Mary Nestor.

"No, indeed, unless you give me a start of several miles."

They kept together for some little time longer, and then, as Tom knew
his father would be restless at the slow speed, he told Miss Nestor the
need of haste, and, advancing his timer, he soon left the DOT behind.
The girl called a laughing good-by and urged him not to forget the
races, which were to take place in about two weeks.

"I suppose Andy Foger will enter his boat," commented Ned.

"Naturally," agreed Tom.  "It's a racer, and he'll probably think it
can beat anything on the lake.  But if he doesn't manage his motor
differently, it won't."

The distance from Sandport to Shopton had been more than half covered
at noon, when the travelers ate a lunch in the boat.  Mr. Swift was
looking anxiously ahead to catch the first glimpse of his dock and Tom
was adjusting the machinery as finely as he dared to get out of it the
maximum speed.

Ned Newton, who happened to be gazing aloft, wondering at the perfect
beauty of the blue sky after the storm, uttered a sudden exclamation.
Then he arose and pointed at some object in the air.

"Look!" he cried, "A balloon!  It must have gone up from some fair."

Tom and his father looked upward.  High in the air, almost over their
heads, was an immense balloon.  It was of the hot-air variety, such as
performers use in which to make ascensions from fair grounds and
circuses, and below it dangled a trapeze, upon which could be observed
a man, only he looked more like a doll than a human being.

"I shouldn't like to be as high as that," remarked Ned.

"I would," answered Tom as he slowed down the engine the better to
watch the balloon.  "I'd like to go up in an airship, and I intend to
some day."

"I believe he's going to jump!" suddenly exclaimed Ned after a few
minutes.  "He's going to do something, anyhow."

"Probably come down in a parachute," said Tom.  "They generally do
that."

"No!  No!" cried Ned.  "He isn't going to jump.  Something has
happened!  The balloon is on fire!  He'll be burned to death!"

Horror stricken, they all gazed aloft.  From the mouth of the balloon
there shot a tongue of fire, and it was followed by a cloud of black
smoke.  The big bag was getting smaller and seemed to be descending,
while the man on the trapeze was hanging downward by his hands to get
as far as possible away from the terrible heat.




CHAPTER XXII

THE RESCUE


"Jump!  Jump!" cried Mr. Swift, leaping to his feet and motioning to
the man on the trapeze of the balloon.  But it is doubtful whether or
not the performer heard him.  Certainly he could not see the frantic
motions of the inventor.  "Why doesn't he jump?" Mr. Swift went on
piteously to the two lads.  "He'll surely be burned to death if he
hangs on there!"

"It's too far to leap!" exclaimed Tom.  "He's a good way up in the air,
though it looks like only a short distance.  He would be killed if he
dropped now."

"He ought to have a parachute," added Ned.  "Most of those men do when
they go up in a balloon.  Why doesn't he come down in that?  I wonder
how the balloon took fire?"

"Maybe he hasn't a parachute," suggested Tom, while he slowed down the
motor-boat still more so as to remain very nearly under the blazing
balloon.

"Yes, he has!" cried Ned.  "See, it's hanging to one side of the big
bag.  He ought to cut loose.  He could save himself then.  Why doesn't
he?"

The balloon was slowly twisting about, gradually settling to the
surface of the lake, but all the while the flames were becoming fiercer
and the black clouds of smoke increased in size.

"There, see the parachute!" went on Ned.

The twisting of the bag had brought into view the parachute or big,
umbrella-shaped bag, which would have enabled the man to safely drop to
the surface of the lake.  Without it he would have hit the water with
such force that he would have been killed as surely as if he had struck
the solid earth.  But the boys and Mr. Swift also saw something else,
and this was that the balloon was on fire on the same side where the
parachute was suspended.

"Look! Look!" shouted Tom, bringing his boat to a stop.  "That's why he
can't jump!  He can't reach the parachute!"

By this time the balloon had settled so low that the actions of the man
could be plainly seen. That he was in great agony of fear, as well as
in great pain from the terrific heat over his head was evident. He
shifted about on the trapeze bar, now hanging by one hand, so as to
bring his body a little farther below the blazing end of the bag, then,
when one arm tired, he would hang by the other. If the balloon would
only come down more quickly it would get to within such a short
distance of the water that the man could safely make the drop. But the
immense canvas bag was settling so slowly, for it was still very
buoyant, that considerable time must elapse before it would be near
enough to the water to make it safe for the unfortunate man to let go
the trapeze.

"Oh, if we could only do something!" cried Tom.  "We have to remain
here helpless and watch him burn to death.  It's awful!"

The three in the boat continued to gaze upward.  They could see the man
making frantic efforts to reach his parachute from time to time.  Once,
as a little current of air blew the flames and smoke to one side, he
thought he had a chance.  Up on the trapeze bar he pulled himself and
then edged along it in an endeavor to grasp the ring of the parachute.
Once he almost had hold of that and also the cord, which ran to a knife
blade.  This cord, being pulled, would sever the rope that bound it to
the balloon, and he would be comparatively safe, so he might drop to
the lake.  But, just as he was about to grasp the ring and cord the
smoke came swirling down on him and the hungry flames seemed to put out
their fiery tongues to devour him.  He had to slide back and once more
hung by his hands.

"I thought he was saved then," whispered Tom, and even the whisper
sounded loud in the silence.

Several men came running along the shore of the lake now.  They saw the
occupants in the ARROW and cried out:

"Why don't you save him?  Go to his rescue!"

"What can we do?" asked Ned quietly of his two friends, but he did not
trouble to answer the men on shore, who probably did not know what they
were saying.

The motor-boat had drifted from a spot under the unfortunate
balloonist, and at a word from his father the young inventor started
the engine and steered the craft back directly under the blazing bag
again.

"If he does drop, perhaps we may be able to pick him up," said Mr.
Swift.  "I wish we could save him!"

A cry from Ned startled Tom and his father, and their eyes, that had
momentarily been directed away from the burning bag high in the air,
were again turned toward it.

"The balloon is falling apart!" exclaimed Ned.  "It's all up with him
now!"

Indeed it did seem so, for pieces of the burning canvas, blazing and
smoking, were falling in a shower from the part of the bag already
consumed, and the fiery particles were fairly raining down on the man.
But he still had his wits about him, though his perilous position was
enough to make any one lose his mind, and he swung from side to side on
the bar, shifting skillfully with his hands and dodging the larger
particles of blazing canvas.  When some small sparks fell on his
clothing he beat them out with one hand, while with the other he clung
to the trapeze.

There was scarcely any wind or the man's plight might have been more
bearable, for the current of air would have carried the smoke and fire
to one side.  As it was, most of the smoke and flames went straight up,
save now and then, when a draught created by the heat would swirl the
black clouds down on the performer, hiding him from sight for a second
or two.  A breeze would have carried the sparks away instead of letting
them fall on him.

Nearer and nearer to the surface of the lake sank the balloon.  By this
time the crowd on the bank had increased and there were excited
opinions as to what was best to do.  But the trouble was that little
could be done.  If the man could hold out until he got near enough to
the water to let go he might yet be saved, but this would not be for
some time at the present rate the balloon was falling.  The performer
realized this, and, as the fire was getting hotter, he made another
desperate attempt to reach the parachute.  It was unavailing and he had
to drop back, hanging below the slender bar.

Suddenly there came a puff of wind, fanning the faces of those in the
motor-boat, and they looked intently to observe if there was any
current as high as was the balloonist.  They saw the big bag sway to
one side and the flames broke out more fiercely as they caught the
draught.  The balloon moved slowly down the lake.

"Keep after it, Tom!" urged his father.  "We may be able to save him!"

The lad increased the speed of his engine and Ned, who was at the
wheel, gave it a little twist.  Then, with a suddenness that was
startling, the blazing canvas airship began to settle swiftly toward
the water.  It had lost much of its buoyancy.

"Now he can jump!  He's near enough to the water now!" cried Tom.

But a new danger arose.  True, the balloon was rapidly approaching the
surface of the lake and in a few seconds more would be within such a
short distance that a leap would not be fatal.  But the burning bag was
coming straight down and scarcely would the man be in the water ere the
fiery canvas mass would be on top of him.

In such an event he would either be burned to death or so held down
that drowning must quickly follow.

"If there was only wind enough to carry the balloon beyond him after he
jumped he could do it safely!" cried Ned.

Tom said nothing.  He was measuring, with, his eye, the distance the
balloon had yet to go and also the distance away the motor-boat was
from where it would probably land.

"He can do it!" exclaimed the young inventor.

"How?" asked his father.

For answer Tom caught up a newspaper he had purchased at the hotel that
morning.  Rolling it quickly into a cone, so that it formed a rough
megaphone, he put the smaller end to his mouth, and, pointing the
larger opening at the balloonist, he called out:

"Drop into the lake!  We'll pick you up before the bag falls on you!
Jump!  Let go now!"

The balloonist heard and understood.  So did Ned and Mr. Swift.  Tom's
quick wit had found a way to save the man.

Faster and faster the blazing bag settled toward the surface of the
water.  It was now merely a mushroom-shaped piece of burning and
smoking canvas, yet it was supporting the man almost as a parachute
would have done.

With one look upward to the burning mass above him and a glance
downward to the lake, the aeronaut let go his hold.  Like a shot he
came down, holding his body rigid and straight as a stick, for he knew
how to fall into water, did that balloonist.

Tom Swift was ready for him.  No sooner had the lad called his
directions through the megaphone than the young inventor had speeded up
his engine to the top notch.

"Steer so as to pick him up!" Tom cried to Ned, who was at the wheel.
"Pass by him on a curve, and, as soon as I grab him, put the wheel over
so as to get out from under the balloon."

It was a risky thing to do, but our hero had it all planned out.  He
made a loop of the boat's painter, and, hurrying to the bow, leaned
over as far as he could, holding the rope in readiness.  His idea was
to have the balloonist grab the strands and be pulled out of danger by
the speedy motor-boat, for the blazing canvas would cover such an
extent of water that the man could not have swum out of the danger zone
in time.

Down shot the balloonist and down more slowly settled the collapsed
bag, yet not so slowly that there was any time to spare.  It needed
only a few seconds to drop over the performer, to burn and smother him.

Into the water splashed the man, disappearing from sight as when a
stick is dropped in, point first.  Ned was alert and steered the boat
to the side in which the man's face was, for he concluded that the
aeronaut would strike out in that direction when he came up.  The ARROW
was now directly under the blazing balloon and cries of fear from the
watchers on shore urged upon Tom and his companions the danger of their
position.  But they had to take some risk to rescue the man.

"There he is!" cried Mr. Swift, who was on the watch, leaning over the
side of the boat.  Tom and Ned saw him at the same instant.  Ned
shifted his wheel and the young inventor bent over, holding out the
rope for the man to grasp.  He saw it and struck out toward the ARROW.
But there was no need for him to go far.  An instant more and the
speeding motor-boat shot past him.  He grabbed the rope and Tom, aided
by Mr. Swift, began to lift him out of the water.

"Quick!  To one side, Ned!" yelled Tom, for the heat of the descending
mass of burning canvas struck him like a furnace blast.

Ned needed no urging.  With a swirl of the screw the ARROW shot herself
out of the way, carrying the aeronaut with her.  A moment later the
burning balloon, or what there was left of it, settled down into the
lake, hissing angrily as the fire was quenched by the water and
completely covering the spot where, but a few seconds before, the man
had been swimming.  He had been saved in the nick of time.




CHAPTER XXIII

PLANS FOR AN AIRSHIP


"Slow her down, Ned!" cried Tom, for the ARROW was shooting so swiftly
through the water that the young inventor found it impossible to pull
up the balloonist.  Ned hurried back to the motor, and, when the boat's
way had been checked, it was an easy matter to pull the dripping and
almost exhausted man into the craft.

"Are you much hurt?" asked Mr. Swift anxiously, for Tom was too much
out of breath with his exertion to ask any questions.  For that matter
the man was in almost as bad a plight.  He was breathing heavily, as
one who had run a long race.

"I--I guess I'm all right," he panted.  "Only burned a little on my
hands.  That--that was a close call!"

The boat swung around and headed for shore, on which was quite a throng
of persons.  Some of them had cheered when they saw the plucky rescue.

"I'm afraid we can't save your balloon," gasped Tom as he looked at the
place where the canvas was still floating and burning.

"No matter.  It wasn't worth much.  That's the last time I'll ever go
up in a hot-air balloon," said the man with more energy than he had
before exhibited.  "I'm done with 'em.  I've had my lesson.  Hereafter
an aeroplane or a gas balloon for me.  I only did this to oblige the
fair committee.  I'll not do it again."

The man spoke in short, crisp sentences, as though he was in too much
of a hurry to waste his words.

"Let it sink," he went on.  "It's no good.  Glad to see the last of it."

Almost as he spoke, with a final hiss and a cloud of steam that mingled
with the black smoke, the remains of the big bag sunk beneath the
surface of the lake.

"We must get you ashore at once and to a doctor," said Mr. Swift.  "You
must be badly burned."

"Not much.  Only my hands, where some burning pieces of canvas fell on'
em.  If I had a little oil to put on I'd be all right."

"I can fix you up better than that," put in Tom.  "I have some
Vaseline."

"Good!  Just the thing.  Pass it over," and the man, though he spoke
shortly, seemed grateful for the offer.  "My name's Sharp," he went on,
"John Sharp, of no place in particular, for I travel all over.  I'm a
professional balloonist.  Ha!  That's the stuff!"

This last was in reference to a bottle of Vaseline, which Tom produced.
Mr. Sharp spread some over the backs of his hands and went on:

"That's better.  Much obliged.  I can't begin to thank you for what you
did for me--saved my life.  I thought it was all up with me--would have
been but for you.  Mustn't mind my manner--it's a way I have--have to
talk quick when you're balloonin'--no time--but I'm grateful all the
same.  Who might you people be?"

Tom told him their names and Mr. Swift asked the aeronaut if he was
sure he didn't need the services of a physician.

"No doctor for me," answered the balloonist.  "I've been in lots of
tight places, but this was the worst squeeze.  If you'll put me ashore,
I guess I can manage now."

"But you're all wet," objected Tom.  "Where will you go?  You need some
other clothes," for the man wore a suit of tights and spangles.

"Oh, I'm used to this," went on the performer.  "I frequently have to
fall in the water.  I always carry a little money with me so as to get
back to the place where I started from.  By the way, where am I?"

"Opposite Daleton," answered Tom.  "Where did you go up from?"

"Pratonia.  Big fair there.  I was one of the features."

"Then you're about fifteen miles away," commented Mr. Swift.  "You can
hardly get back before night.  Must you go there?"

"Left my clothes there.  Also a valuable gas balloon.  No more hot-air
ones for me.  Guess I'd better go back," and the aeronaut continued to
speak in his quick, jerky sentences.

"We'd be very glad to have you come with us, Mr. Sharp," went on the
inventor.  "We are not far from Shopton, and if you would like to
remain over night I'm sure we would make you comfortable.  You can
proceed to Pratonia in the morning."

"Thanks.  Might not be a bad idea," said Mr. Sharp.  "I'm obliged to
you.  I've got to go there to collect my money, though I suppose they
won't give it all to me."

"Why not?" demanded Ned.

"Didn't drop from my parachute.  Couldn't.  Fire was one
reason--couldn't reach the parachute, and if I could have, guess it
wouldn't have been safe.  Parachute probably was burned too.  But I'm
done with hot-air balloons though I guess I said that before."

The boys were much interested in the somewhat odd performer, and, on
his part, he seemed to take quite a notion to Tom, who told him of
several things that he had invented. "Well," remarked Mr. Swift after a
while, during which the boat had been moving slowly down the lake, "if
we are not to go ashore for a doctor for you, Mr. Sharp, suppose we put
on more speed and get to my home? I'm anxious about a robbery that
occurred there," and he related some facts in the case.

"Speed her up!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp.  "Wish I could help you catch the
scoundrels, but afraid I can't--hands too sore," and he looked at his
burns.  Then he told how he had made the ascension from the Pratonia
fair grounds and how, when he was high in the air, he had discovered
that the balloon was on fire.  He described his sensations and told how
he thought his time had surely come.  Sparks from the hot air used to
inflate it probably caused the blaze, he said.

"I've made a number of trips," he concluded, "hot air and gas bags, but
this was the worst ever.  It got on my nerves for a few minutes," he
added coolly.

"I should think it would," agreed Tom as he speeded up the motor and
sent the ARROW on her homeward way.

The boys and Mr. Swift were much interested in the experiences of the
balloonist and asked him many questions, which he answered modestly.
Several hours passed and late that afternoon the party approached
Shopton.

"Here we are!" exclaimed Mr. Swift, relief in his tones.  "Now to see
of what I have been robbed and to get the police after the scoundrels!"

When the boat was nearing the dock Mr. Sharp, who had been silent for
some time, suddenly turned to Tom and asked:

"Ever invent an airship?"

"No," replied the lad, somewhat surprised.  "I never did."

"I have," went on the balloonist.  "That is, I've invented part of it.
I'm stuck over some details.  Maybe you and I'll finish it some day.
How about it?"

"Maybe," assented Tom, who was occupied just then in making a good
landing.  "I am interested in airships, but I never thought I could
build one."

"Easiest thing in the world," went on Mr. Sharp, as if it was an
everyday matter.  "You and I will get busy as soon as we clear up this
robbery."  He talked as though he had been a friend of the family for
some time, for he had a genial, taking manner.

A little later Mr. Swift was excitedly questioning Garret Jackson
concerning the robbery and making an examination of the electrical shop
to discover what was missing.

"They've taken some parts of my gyroscope!" he exclaimed, "and some
valuable tools and papers, as well as some unfinished work that will be
difficult to replace."

"Much of a loss?" asked Mr. Sharp with a business-like air.

"Well, not so large as regards money," answered the inventor, "but they
took things I can never replace, and I will miss them very much if I
cannot get them back."

"Then we'll get them back!" snapped the balloonist, as if that was all
there was to it.

The police were called up on the telephone and the facts given to them,
as well as a description of the stolen things.  They promised to do
what they could, but, in the light of past experiences, Tom and his
father did not think this would be much.  There was little more that
could be done that evening.  Ned Newton went to his home, and, after
Mr. Swift had insisted in calling in his physician to look after Mr.
Sharp's burns the balloonist was given a room next to Tom's.  Then the
Swift household settled down.

"Well," remarked Tom to his father, as he got ready for bed, "this sure
has been an exciting day."

"And my loss is a serious one," added the inventor somewhat sadly.

"Don't worry, dad," begged his son.  "I'll do my best to recover those
things for you."

Several days passed, but there was no clew to the thieves.  That they
were the same ones who had stolen the turbine model there was little
doubt, but they seemed to have covered their tracks well.  The police
were at a loss, and, though Tom and Mr. Sharp cruised about the lake,
they could get no trace of the men.  The balloonist had sent to
Pratonia for his clothing and other baggage and was now installed in
the Swift home, where he was invited to stay a week or two.

One night when he was looking over some papers he had taken from his
trunk the balloonist came over to where Tom was making a drawing of a
new machine he was planning and said:

"Like to see my idea for an airship?  Different from some.  It's a
dirigible balloon with an aeroplane front and rear to steer and balance
it in big winds.  It would be a winner, only for one thing.  Maybe you
can help me."

"Maybe I can," agreed Tom, who was at once interested.

"We ought to be able to do something.  Look at our names--Swift and
Sharp--quick and penetrating--a good firm to build airships," and he
laughed genially.  "Shall we do it?"

"I'm willing," agreed Tom, and the balloonist spread his plans out on
the table, he and the young inventor soon being deep in a discussion of
them.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE MYSTERY SOLVED


From then on, for several days, the young inventor and his new friend
lived in an atmosphere of airships.  They talked them from morning
until night, and even Mr. Swift, much as he was exercised over his
loss, took part in the discussions.

In the meanwhile efforts had not ceased to locate the robbers and
recover the stolen goods, but so far without success.

One afternoon, about two weeks after the thrilling rescue of John
Sharp, Tom said to the balloonist:

"Wouldn't you like to come for a ride in the motor-boat?  Maybe it will
help us to solve the puzzle of the airship.  We'll take a trip across
and up the opposite shore."

"Good idea," commented Mr. Sharp.  "Fine day for a sail.  Come on.
Blow the cobwebs from our brains."

Mr. Swift declined an invitation to accompany them, as he said he would
stay home and try to straighten out his affairs, which were somewhat
muddled by the robbery.

Out over the blue waters of Lake Carlopa shot the ARROW.  It was making
only moderate speed, as Tom was in no hurry, and he knew his engine
would last longer if not forced too frequently.  They glided along,
crossed the lake and were proceeding up the opposite shore when, as
they turned out from a little bay and rounded a point of land, Mr.
Sharp exclaimed:

"Look out, Tom, there's rowboat just ahead!"

"Oh, I'll pass well to one side of that," answered the young inventor,
looking at the craft.  As he did so, noting that there were four men in
it, one of the occupants caught a glimpse of the ARROW.  No sooner had
he done so than he spoke to his companions, and they all turned to
stare at Tom.  At first the lad could scarcely believe his eyes, but as
he looked more intently he uttered a cry.

"There they are!"

"Who?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"Those men--the thieves!  We must catch them!"

Tom had spoken loudly, but even though the men in the rowboat did hear
what he said, they would have realized without that that they were
about to be pursued, for there was no mistaking the attitude of our
hero.

Two of the thieves were at the oars, and, with one accord, they at once
increased their speed.  The boat swung about sharply and was headed for
the shore, which they seemed to have come from only a short time
previous, as the craft was not far out in the lake.

"No, you don't!" cried Tom. "I see your game!  You want to get to the
woods, where you'll have a better chance to escape!  If this isn't
great luck, coming upon them this way!"

It was the work of but a moment to speed up the engine and head the
ARROW for the rowboat.  The men were pulling frantically, but they had
no chance.

"Get between them and the shore!" cried Mr. Sharp. "You can head them
off then." This was good advice and Tom followed it. The men, among
whom the lad could recognize Happy Harry and Anson Morse, were all
excited. Two of them stood up, as though to jump overboard, but their
companions called to them to stop.

"If we only had a gun now, not to shoot at them but to intimidate
them," murmured the balloonist, "maybe they'd stop."

"Here's one," answered Tom, pointing to the seat locker, where he kept
the shotgun Mr. Duncan had given him.  In a moment Mr. Sharp had it out.

"Surrender!" he cried, pointing the weapon at the men in the small boat.

"Don't shoot!  Don't fire on us!  We'll give up!" cried Happy Harry,
and the two with the oars ceased pulling.

"Don't take any chances," urged Mr. Sharp in a low voice.  "Keep
between them and the shore.  I'll cover them."  Tom was steering from
an auxiliary side wheel near the motor, and soon the ARROW had cut off
the retreat of the men.  They could not land and to row across the lake
meant speedy capture.

"Well, what do you want of us?" growled Morse.  "What right have you
got to interfere with us in this fashion?"

"The best of right," answered Tom.  "You'll find out when you're landed
in jail."

"You can't arrest us," sneered Happy Harry.  "You're not an officer and
you haven't any warrant."

Tom hadn't thought of that, and his chagrin showed in his face.  Happy
Harry was quick to see it.

"You'd better let us go," he threatened "We can have you arrested for
bothering us.  You haven't any right to stop us, Tom Swift."

"Maybe he hasn't, but I have!" exclaimed John Sharp suddenly.

"You!  Who are you?" demanded Featherton, alias Simpson, the man who
had run the automobile that carried Tom away.

"Me.  I'm a special deputy sheriff for this county," answered the
balloonist simply.  "Here's my badge," and, throwing back his coat, he
displayed it.  "You see I got the appointment in order to have some
authority in the crowds that gather to watch me go up," he explained to
Tom, who plainly showed his astonishment.  "I found it very useful to
be able to threaten arrest, but in this case I'll do more than
threaten.  You are my prisoners," he went on to the men in the boat,
and he handled the shotgun as if he knew how to use it.  "I'll take you
into custody on complaint of Mr. Swift for robbery.  Now will you go
quietly or are you going to make a fuss?" and Mr. Sharp shut his jaw
grimly.

"Well, seeing as how you have the drop on us, I guess we'll have to do
as you say," admitted Happy Harry, alias Jim Burke.  "But you can't
prove anything against us.  We haven't any of Mr. Swift's property."

"Well, you know where it is then," retorted Tom quickly.

Under the restraining influence of the gun the men made no resistance.
While Mr. Sharp covered them, Tom towed their boat toward shore.  Then,
while the young inventor held the gun, the balloonist tied the hands
and feet of the thieves in a most scientific manner, for what he did
not know about ropes and knots was not worth putting into a book.

"Now, I guess they'll stay quiet for a while," remarked Mr. Sharp as he
surveyed the crestfallen criminals.  "I'll remain on guard here, Tom,
while you go notify the nearest constable and we'll take them to jail.
We bagged the whole lot as neatly as could be desired."

"No, you didn't get all of us!" exclaimed Happy Harry, and there was a
savage anger in his tones.

"Keep quiet!" urged Morse.

"No, I'll not keep quiet!  It's a shame that we have to take our
medicine while that trimmer, Tod Boreck, goes free.  He ought to have
been with us, and he would be, only he's trying to get away with that
sparkler!"

"Keep quiet," again urged Morse.

Tom was all attention.  He had caught the word "sparkler," and he at
once associated it with the occasion he had heard the men use it
before.  He felt that he was on the track of solving the mystery
connected with his boat.

He looked at the men.  They were the same four who had been involved in
the former theft--Appleson, Featherton, Morse and Burke.  Were there
five of them?  He recalled the man who had been caught tampering with
his boat--the man who had tried to bid on the ARROW at the auction.
Where was he?

"Boreck didn't get what he was after," resumed Happy Harry, "and I'm
going to spoil his game for him.  Say, kid," he went on to Tom, "look
in the front part of your boat--where the gasoline tank is."

Tom felt his heart beating fast.  At last he felt that he would solve
the puzzle.  He opened the forward compartment.  To his disappointment
it seemed as usual.  Morse and the others were making a vain effort to
silence Happy Harry.

"I don't see anything here," said Tom.

"No, because it's hidden in one of those blocks of wood you use for a
brace," continued the man.  "Which one it is, Boreck didn't know, so he
pulled out two or three, only to be fooled each time.  You must have
shifted them, kid, from the way they were when we had the boat."

"I did," answered the young inventor, recollecting how he had taken out
some of the braces and inserted new ones, then painted the interior of
the compartment.  "What is in the braces, anyhow?"

"The sparkler--a big diamond--in a hollow place in the wood, kid!"
exclaimed Happy Harry, blurting out the words.  "I'm not going to let
Tod Boreck get away with it while we stay in jail."

"Take out all the braces that haven't been moved and have a look,"
suggested Mr. Sharp.  Tom only had to remove two, those farthest back,
for all the others had, at one time or another, been changed or taken
away by the thief.

One of the blocks did not seem to have anything unusual about it, but
at the sight of the other Tom could not repress a cry.  It was the one
that seemed to have had a hole bored in it and then plugged up again.
He remembered his father noticing it on the occasion of overhauling the
boat.

"The sparkler's in there," said the tramp as he saw the brace.  "Boreck
was after it several times, but he never pulled out the right one."

With his knife Tom dug out the putty that covered the round hole in the
block.  No sooner had he done so than there rolled out into his hand a
white object.  It was something done up in tissue paper, and as he
removed the wrapper, there was a flash in the sunlight and a large,
beautiful diamond was revealed.  The mystery had been solved.




CHAPTER XXV

WINNING A RACE


"Where did this diamond come from?" demanded Mr. Sharp of the quartette
of criminals.

"That's for us to know and you to find out," sneered Happy Harry.  "I
don't care as long as that trimmer Boreck didn't get it.  He tried to
do us out of our share."

"Well, I guess the police will make you tell," went on the balloonist.
"Go for the constable, Tom."

Leaving his friend to guard the ugly men, who for a time at least were
beyond the possibility of doing harm, Tom hurried off through the woods
to the nearest village.  There he found an officer and the gang was
soon lodged in jail.  The diamond was turned over to the authorities,
who said they would soon locate the owner.

Nor were they long in doing it, for it appeared the gem was part of a
large jewel robbery that had taken place some time before in a distant
city.  The Happy Harry gang, as the men came to be called, were
implicated in it, though they got only a small share of the plunder.
Search was made for Tod Boreck and he was captured about a week after
his companions.  Seeing that their game was up, the men made a partial
confession, telling where Mr. Swift's goods had been secreted, and the
inventor's valuable tools, papers and machinery were recovered, no
damage having been done to them.

It developed that after the diamond theft, and when the gang still had
possession of Mr. Hastings' boat, Boreck, sometimes called Murdock by
his cronies, unknown to them, had secreted the jewel in one of the
braces under the gasoline tank.  He expected to get it out secretly,
but the capture of the gang and the sale of the boat prevented this.
Then he tried to buy the craft to take out the diamond, but Tom overbid
him.  It was Boreck who found Andy's bunch of keys and used one to open
the compartment lock when Tom surprised him.  The man did manage to
remove some of the blocks, thinking he had the one with the diamond in
it, but the fact of Tom changing them, and painting the compartment
deceived him.  The gang hoped to get some valuables from Mr. Swift's
shops, and, to a certain extent, succeeded after hanging around for
several nights and following him to Sandport, but Tom eventually proved
too much for them.  Even stealing the Arrow, which was taken to aid the
gang in robbing Mr. Swift, did not succeed, and Boreck's plan then to
get possession of the diamond fell through.

It was thought that the gang would get long terms in prison, but one
night, during a violent storm, they escaped from the local jail and
that was the last seen of them for some time.

A few days after the capture as Tom was in the boathouse making some
minor repairs to the motor he heard a voice calling:

"Mistah Swift, am yo' about?"

"Hello, Rad, is that you?" he inquired, recognizing the voice of the
colored owner of the mule Boomerang.

"Yais, sa, dat's me.  I got a lettah fo' yo'.  I were passin' de
post-office an' de clerk asted me to brung it to yo' 'case as how it's
marked 'hurry,' an' he said he hadn't seen yo' to-day."

"That's right.  I've been so busy I haven't had time to go for the
mail," and Tom took the letter, giving Eradicate ten cents for his
trouble.

"Ha, that's good!" exclaimed Tom as he read it.

"Hab some one done gone an' left yo' a fortune, Mistah Swift?" asked
the negro.

"No, but it's almost as good.  It's an invitation to take part in the
motor-boat races next week.  I'd forgotten all about them.  I must get
ready."

"Good land!  Dat's all de risin' generation t'inks about now," observed
Eradicate, "racin' an' goin' fast.  Mah ole mule Boomerang am good
enough fo' me," and, shaking his head in a woeful manner, Eradicate
went on his way.

Tom told Mr. Sharp and his father of the proposed races of the Lanton
Motor-boat Club, and, as it was required that two persons be in a craft
the size of the ARROW, the young inventor arranged for the balloonist
to accompany him.  Our hero spent the next few days in tuning up his
motor and in getting the ARROW ready for the contest.

The races took place on that side of Lake Carlopa near where Mr.
Hastings lived, and he was one of the officials of the club.  There
were several classes, graded according to the horsepower of the motors,
and Tom found himself in a class with Andy Foger.

"Here's where I beat you," boasted the red-haired youth exultantly,
though his manner toward Tom was more temperate than usual.  Andy had
learned a lesson.

"Well, if you can beat me I'll give you credit for it," answered Tom.

The first race was for high-powered craft, and in this Mr. Hastings'
new CARLOPA won.  Then came the trial of the small boats, and Tom was
pleased to note that Miss Nestor was on hand in the tiny DOT.

"Good luck!" he called to her as he was adjusting his timer, for his
turn would come soon.  "Remember what I told you about the spark," for
he had given her a few lessons.

"If I win it will be due to you," she called brightly.

She did win, coming in ahead of several confident lads who had better
boats.  But Miss Nestor handled the DOT to perfection and crossed the
line a boat's length ahead of her nearest competitor.

"Fine!" cried Tom, and then came the warning gun that told him to get
ready for his trial.

This was a five-mile race and had several entrants.  The affair was a
handicap one and Tom had no reason to complain of the rating allowed
him.

"Crack!" went the starting pistol and away went Tom and one or two
others who had the same allowance as did he.  A little later the others
started and finally the last class, including Andy Foger.  The RED
STREAK shot ahead and was soon in the lead, for Andy and Sam had
learned better how to handle their craft.  Tom and Mr. Sharp were
worried, but they stuck grimly to the race and when the turning stake
was reached Tom's motor had so warmed up and was running so well that
he crept up on Andy.  A mile from the final mark Andy and Tom were on
even terms, and though the red-haired lad tried to shake off his rival
he could not.  Andy's ignition system failed him several times and he
changed from batteries to magneto and back again in the hope of getting
a little more speed out of the motor.

But it was not to be.  A half-mile away from the finish Tom, who had
fallen behind a little, crept up on even terms.  Then he slowly forged
ahead, and, a hundred rods from the stake, the young inventor knew that
the race was his.  He clinched it a few minutes later, crossing the
line amid a burst of cheers.  The ARROW had beaten several boats out of
her own class and Tom was very proud and happy.

"My, but we certainly did scoot along some!" cried Mr. Sharp.  "But
that's nothing to how we'll go when we build our airship, eh, Tom?" and
he looked at the flushed face of the lad.

"No, indeed," agreed the young inventor.  "But I don't know that we'll
take part in any races in it.  We'll build it, however, as soon as we
can solve that one difficulty."

They did solve it, as will be told in the next book of this series, to
be called "Tom Swift and His Airship; or, The Stirring Cruise of the
RED CLOUD."  They had some remarkable adventures in the wonderful
craft, and solved the mystery of a great bank robbery.

This ended the contests of the motor-boats and the little fleet crowded
up to the floats and docks, where the prizes were to be awarded.  Tom
received a handsome silver cup and Miss Nestor a gold bracelet.

"Now I want all the contestants, winners and losers, to come up to my
house and have lunch," invited Mr. Hastings.

As Tom and the balloonist strolled up the walk to the handsome house
Andy Foger passed them.

"You wouldn't have beaten me if my spark coil hadn't gone back on me,"
he said, somewhat sneeringly.

"Maybe," admitted Tom, and just then he caught sight of Mary Nestor.
"May I take you in to lunch?" he asked.

"Yes," she said, "because you helped me to win," and she blushed
prettily.  And then they all sat down to the tables set out on the
lawn, while Tom looked so often at Mary Nestor that Mr. Sharp said
afterward it was a wonder he found time to eat.  But Tom didn't care.
He was happy.

End

Tom Swift and His Airship


by

Victor Appleton




Contents

     I  An Explosion
    II  Ned Sees Mysterious Men
   III  Whitewashed
    IV  A Trial Trip
     V  Colliding With A Tower
    VI  Getting Off The Roof
   VII  Andy Tries A Trick
  VIII  Winning a Prize
    IX  The Runaway Auto
     X  A Bag of Tools
    XI  The "Red Cloud" Departs
   XII  Some Startling News
  XIII  Mr. Damon in Danger
   XIV  Andy Gives the Clue
    XV  Fired Upon
   XVI  Over a Fiery Furnace
  XVII  "Wanted--For Robbery!"
 XVIII  Back for Vindication
   XIX  Wrecked
    XX  Tom Gets a Clue
   XXI  On the Trail
  XXII  The Sheriff on Board
 XXIII  On To the Camp
  XXIV  The Raid
   XXV  Andy Gets His Reward




Chapter 1

An Explosion


"Are you all ready, Tom?"

"All ready, Mr. Sharp," replied a young man, who was stationed near
some complicated apparatus, while the questioner, a dark man, with a
nervous manner, leaned over a large tank.

"I'm going to turn on the gas now," went on the man. "Look out for
yourself. I'm not sure what may happen."

"Neither am I, but I'm ready for it. If it does explode it can't do
much damage."

"Oh, I hope it doesn't explode. We've had so much trouble with the
airship, I trust nothing goes wrong now."

"Well, turn on the gas, Mr. Sharp," advised Tom Swift. "I'll watch the
pressure gauge, and, if it goes too high, I'll warn you, and you can
shut it off."

The man nodded, and, with a small wrench in his hand, went to one end
of the tank. The youth, looking anxiously at him, turned his gaze now
and then toward a gauge, somewhat like those on steam boilers, which
gauge was attached to an aluminum, cigar-shaped affair, about five feet
long.

Presently there was a hissing sound in the small frame building where
the two were conducting an experiment which meant much to them. The
hissing grew louder.

"Be ready to jump," advised Mr. Sharp.

"I will," answered the lad. "But the pressure is going up very slowly.
Maybe you'd better turn on more gas."

"I will. Here she goes! Look out now. You can't tell what is going to
happen."

With a sudden hiss, as the powerful gas, under pressure, passed from
the tank, through the pipes, and into the aluminum container, the hand
on the gauge swept past figure after figure on the dial.

"Shut it off!" cried Tom quickly. "It's coming too fast! Shut her off!"

The man sprang to obey the command, and, with nervous fingers, sought
to fit the wrench over the nipple of the controlling valve. Then his
face seemed to turn white with fear.

"I can't move it!" Mr. Sharp yelled. "It's jammed! I can't shut off the
gas! Run! Look out! She'll explode!"

Tom Swift, the young inventor, whose acquaintance some of you have
previously made, gave one look at the gauge, and seeing that the
pressure was steadily mounting, endeavored to reach, and open, a
stop-cock, that he might relieve the strain. One trial showed him that
the valve there had jammed too, and catching up a roll of blue prints
the lad made a dash for the door of the shop. He was not a second
behind his companion, and hardly had they passed out of the structure
before there was a loud explosion which shook the building, and
shattered all the windows in it.

Pieces of wood, bits of metal, and a cloud of sawdust and shavings flew
out of the door after the man and the youth, and this was followed by a
cloud of yellowish smoke.

"Are you hurt, Tom?" cried Mr. Sharp, as he swung around to look back
at the place where the hazardous experiment had been conducted.

"Not a bit! How about you?"

"I'm all right. But it was touch and go! Good thing you had the gauge
on or we'd never have known when to run. Well, we've made another
failure of it," and the man spoke somewhat bitterly.

"Never mind, Mr. Sharp," went on Tom Swift. "I think it will be the
last mistake. I see what the trouble is now; and know how to remedy it.
Come on back, and we'll try it again; that is if the tank hasn't blown
up."

"No, I guess that's all right. It was the aluminum container that went
up, and that's so light it didn't do much damage. But we'd better wait
until some of those fumes escape. They're not healthy to breathe."

The cloud of yellowish smoke was slowly rolling away, and the man and
lad were approaching the shop, which, in spite of the explosion that
had taken place in it, was still intact, when an aged man, coming from
a handsome house not far off, called out, "Tom, is anyone hurt?"

"No, dad. We're all right."

"What happened?"

"Well, we had another explosion. We can't seem to get the right mixture
of the gas, but I think we've had the last of our bad luck.  We're
going to try it again. Up to now the gas has been too strong, the tank
too weak, or else our valve control is bad."

"Oh dear, Mr. Swift! Do tell them to be careful!" a woman's voice
chimed in. "I'm sure something dreadful will happen! This is about the
tenth time something has blown up around here, and--"

"It's only the ninth, Mrs. Baggert," interrupted Tom, somewhat
indignantly.

"Well, goodness me! Isn't nine almost as bad as ten? There I was, just
putting my bread in the oven," went on Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper,
"and I was so startled that I dropped it, and now the dough is all over
the kitchen floor. I never saw such a mess."

"I'm sorry," answered the youth, trying not to laugh. "We'll see that
it doesn't happen again."

"Yes; that's what you always say," rejoined the motherly-looking woman,
who looked after the interests of Mr. Swift's home.

"Well, we mean it this time," retorted the lad. "We see where our
mistake was; don't we. Mr. Sharp?"

"I think so," replied the other seriously.

"Come on back, and we'll see what damage was done," proposed Tom.
"Maybe we can rig up another container, mix some fresh gas, and make
the final experiment this afternoon."

"Now do be careful," cautioned Mr. Swift, the aged inventor, once more.
"I'm afraid you two have set too hard a task for yourselves this time."

"No we haven't, dad," answered his son. "You'll see us yet skimming
along above the clouds."

"Humph! If you go above the clouds I shan't be very likely to see you.
But go slowly, now. Don't blow the place up again."

Mr. Swift went into the house, followed by Mrs. Baggert, who was loudly
bewailing the fate of her bread. Tom and Mr. Sharp started toward the
shop where they had been working. It was one of several buildings,
built for experimental purposes and patent work by Mr. Swift, near his
home.

"It didn't do so very much damage," observed Tom, as he peered in
through a window, void of all the panes of glass. "We can start right
in."

"Hold on! Wait! Don't try it now!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp, who talked in
short, snappy sentences, which, however, said all he meant. "The fumes
of that gas aren't good to breathe. Wait, until they have blown away.
It won't be long. It's safer."

He began to cough, choking from the pungent odor, and Tom felt an
unpleasant tickling sensation in his throat.

"Take a walk around," advised Mr. Sharp. "I'll be looking over the blue
prints. Let's have 'em."

Tom handed over the roll he had grabbed up when he ran from the shop,
just before the explosion took place, and, while his companion spread
them out on his knee, as he sat on an upturned barrel, the lad walked
toward the rear of the large yard. It was enclosed by a high board
fence, with a locked gate, but Tom, undoing the fastenings, stepped out
into a broad, green meadow at the rear of his father's property.  As he
did so he saw three boys running toward him.

"Hello!" exclaimed our hero. "There are Andy Foger, Sam Snedecker and
Pete Bailey. I wonder what they're heading this way for?"

On the trio came, increasing their pace as they caught sight of Tom.
Andy Foger, a red-haired and squint-eyed lad, a sort of town bully,
with a rich and indulgent father, was the first to reach the young
inventor.

"How--how many are killed?" panted Andy.

"Shall we go for doctors?" asked Sam.

"Can we see the place?" blurted out Pete, and he had to sit down on the
grass, he was so winded.

"Killed? Doctors?" repeated Tom, clearly much puzzled. "What are you
fellows driving at, anyhow?"

"Wasn't there a lot of people killed in the explosion we heard?"
demanded Andy, in eager tones.

"Not a one," replied Tom.

"There was an explosion!" exclaimed Pete. "We heard it, and you can't
fool us!"

"And we saw the smoke," added Snedecker.

"Yes, there was a small explosion," admitted Tom, with a smile, "but no
one was killed; or even hurt. We don't have such things happen in our
shops."

"Nobody killed?" repeated Andy questioningly, and the disappointment
was evident in his tones.

"Nobody hurt?" added Sam, his crony, and he, too, showed his chagrin.

"All our run for nothing," continued Pete, another crony, in disgust.

"What happened?" demanded the red-haired lad, as if he had a right to
know. "We were walking along the lake road, and we heard an awful
racket. If the police come out here, you'll have to tell what it was,
Tom Swift." He spoke defiantly.

"I've no objection to telling you or the police," replied Tom. "There
was an explosion. My friend, Mr. Sharp, the balloonist, and I were
conducting an experiment with a new kind of gas, and it was too strong,
that's all. An aluminum container blew up, but no particular damage was
done. I hope you're satisfied."

"Humph! What you making, anyhow?" demanded Andy, and again he spoke as
if he had a right to know.

"I don't know that it's any of your business," Tom came back at him
sharply, "but, as everyone will soon know, I may as well tell you.
We're building an airship."

"An airship?" exclaimed Sam and Pete in one breath.

"An airship?" queried Andy, and there was a sneer in his voice. "Well,
I don't think you can do it, Tom Swift! You'll never build an airship;
even if you have a balloonist to help you!"

"I won't, eh?" and Tom was a trifle nettled at the sneering manner of
his rival.

"No, you won't! It takes a smarter fellow than you are to build an
airship that will sail. I believe I could beat you at it myself."

"Oh, you think you could?" asked Tom, and this time he had mastered his
emotions. He was not going to let Andy Foger make him angry.  "Maybe
you can beat me at racing, too?" he went on. "If you think so, bring
out your Red Streak and I'll try the Arrow against her. I beat you
twice, and I can do it again!"

This unexpected taunt disconcerted Andy. It was the truth, for, more
than once had Tom, in his motor-boat, proved more than a match for the
squint-eyed bully and his cronies.

"Go back at him, Andy," advised Sam, in a low voice. "Don't take any of
his guff!"

"I don't intend to," spluttered Andy. "Maybe you did beat me in the
races, because my motor wasn't working right," he conceded, "but you
can't do it again. Anyhow, that's got nothing to do with an airship.
I'll bet you can't make one!"

"I don't bet," replied Tom calmly, "but if you wait a few weeks you'll
see me in an airship, and then, if you want to race the Red Streak
against that, I'll accommodate you. Or, if you want to enter into a
competition to build a dirigible balloon or an aeroplane I'm willing."

"Huh! Think you're smart, don't you? Just because you helped save that
balloonist from being killed when his balloon caught fire," went on
Andy, for want of something better to say. "But you'll never build an
airship!"

"Of course he won't!" added Sam and Pete, bound to side with their
crony, to whom they were indebted for many automobile and motor-boat
rides.

"Just wait," advised Tom, with a tantalizing smile. "Meanwhile, if you
want to try the Red Streak against the Arrow, I'm willing. I have an
hour or so to spare."

"Aw, keep still!" muttered Andy, much discomfited, for the defeat of
his speedy boat, by a much smaller and less powerful one, was a sore
point with him. "You just wait, that's all. I'll get even with you!"

"Look here!" cried Tom, suddenly. "You always say that whenever I get
the best of you. I'm sick of hearing it. I consider that a threat, and
I don't like it. If you don't look out, Andy Foger, you'll have trouble
with me, and at no very distant date!"

Tom, with flashing eyes, and clenched fists, took a step forward. Andy
shrank back.

"Don't be afraid of him," advised Sam. "We'll stand by you, Andy."

"I ain't afraid," muttered the red-haired lad, but it was noticed that
he shuffled off. "You just wait, I'll fix you," he added to Tom. The
bully was plainly in a rage.

The young inventor was about to reply, and, possibly would have made a
more substantial rejoinder to Andy than mere words, when the gate
opened, and Mr. Sharp stepped out.

"The fumes have all cleared away, Tom," he said. "We can go in the
shop, now."

Without further notice of Andy Foger, Tom Swift turned aside, and
followed the aeronaut into the enclosed yard.




Chapter 2

Ned Sees Mysterious Men


"Who were those fellows?" asked the balloonist, of his companion.

"Oh, some chaps who think we'll never build our airship, Mr. Sharp.
Andy Foger, and his crowd."

"Well, we'll show them whether we will or not," rejoined the man.
"I've just thought of one point where we made a mistake. Your father
suggested it to me. We need a needle valve in the gas tank. Then we can
control the flow of vapor better."

"Of course!" cried Tom. "Why didn't I think of that? Let's try it." And
the pair hurried into the machine shop, eager to make another test,
which they hoped would be more successful.

The young inventor, for Tom Swift was entitled to that title, having
patented several machines, lived with his father, Barton Swift, on the
outskirts of the small town of Shopton, in New York State. Mr. Swift
was quite wealthy, having amassed a considerable fortune from several
of his patents, as he was also an inventor. Tom's mother had been dead
since he was a small child, and Mrs. Baggert kept house for the widower
and his son. There was also, in their household, an aged engineer,
named Garret Jackson, who attended to the engine and boilers that
operated machinery and apparatus in several small shops that surrounded
the Swift homestead; for Mr. Swift did most of his work at home.

As related in the first volume of this series, entitled "Tom Swift and
His Motor-Cycle," the lad had passed through some strenuous adventures.
A syndicate of rich men, disappointed in a turbine motor they had
acquired from a certain inventor, hired a gang of scoundrels to get
possession of a turbine Mr. Swift had invented. Just before they made
the attempt, however, Tom became possessed of a motor-cycle.  It had
belonged to a wealthy man, Mr. Wakefield Damon, of Waterford, near Lake
Carlopa, which body of water adjoined the town of Shopton; but Mr.
Damon had two accidents with the machine, and sold it to Tom cheap. Tom
was riding his motorcycle to Albany, to deliver his father's model of
the turbine motor to a lawyer, in order to get a patent on it, when he
was attacked by the gang of bad men. These included Ferguson Appleson,
Anson Morse, Wilson Featherton, alias Simpson, Jake Burke, alias Happy
Harry, who sometimes masqueraded as a tramp, and Tod Boreck, alias
Murdock. These men knocked Tom unconscious, stole the valuable model
and some papers, and carried the youth away in their automobile.

Later the young inventor, following a clue given him by Eradicate
Sampson, an aged colored man, who, with his mule, Boomerang, went about
the country doing odd jobs, got on the trail of the thieves in a
deserted mansion in the woods at the upper end of the lake. Our hero,
with the aid of Mr. Damon, and some friends of the latter, raided the
old house, but the men escaped.

In the second book of the series, called "Tom Swift and His
Motor-Boat," there was related the doings of the lad, his father and
his chum, Ned Newton, on Lake Carlopa. Tom bought at auction, a
motor-boat the thieves had stolen and damaged, and, fixing it up, made
a speedy craft of it so speedy, in fact that it beat the racing-boat
Red Streak--owned by Andy Foger. But Tom did more than race in his
boat. He took his father on a tour for his health, and, during Mr.
Swift's absence from home, the gang of bad men stole some of the
inventor's machinery. Tom set out after them in his motor boat, but the
scoundrels even managed to steal that, hoping to get possession of a
peculiar and mysterious treasure in it, and Tom had considerable
trouble.

Among other things he did when he had his craft, was to aid a Miss Mary
Nestor, who, in her cousin's small boat, the Dot, was having trouble
with the engine, and you shall hear more of Miss Nestor presently, for
she and Tom became quite friendly. Events so shaped themselves that
Andy Foger was glad to loan Tom the Red Streak in which to search for
the stolen Arrow, and it was in the later craft that Tom, his father
and Ned Newton had a most thrilling adventure.

They were on their way down the lake when, in the air overhead they saw
a balloon on fire, with a man clinging to the trapeze. They managed to
save the fellow's life, after a strenuous endeavor. The balloonist,
John Sharp, was destined to play quite a part in Tom's life.

Mr. Sharp was more than an aeronaut--he was the inventor of an
airship--that is, he had plans drawn for the more important parts, but
he had struck a "snag of clouds," as he expressed it, and could not
make the machine work. His falling in with Mr. Swift and his son seemed
providential, for Tom and his father were at once interested in the
project for navigating the upper air. They began a study of Mr. Sharp's
plans, and the balloonist was now in a fair way to have the difficulty
solved.

His airship was, primarily an aeroplane, but with a sustaining aluminum
container, shaped like a cigar, and filled with a secret gas, made
partly of hydrogen, being very light and powerful. It was testing the
effect of this gas on a small model of the aluminum container that the
explosion, told of in the first chapter, occurred. In fact it was only
one of several explosions, but, as Tom said, all the while they were
eliminating certain difficulties, until now the airship seemed almost a
finished thing. But a few more details remained to be worked out, and
Mr. Swift and his son felt that they could master these.

So it was with a feeling of no little elation, that the young inventor
followed Mr. Sharp into the shop. The balloonist, it may be explained,
had been invited to live with the Swifts pending the completion of the
airship.

"Do you think we'll get on the right track if we put the needle valve
in?" asked Tom, as he noted with satisfaction that the damage from the
explosion was not great.

"I'm sure we will," answered the aeronaut. "Now let's make another
model container, and try the gas again."

They set to work, with Mr. Swift helping them occasionally, and Garret
Jackson, the engineer, lending a hand whenever he was needed. All that
afternoon work on the airship progressed. The joint inventors of it
wanted to be sure that the sustaining gas bag, or aluminum container,
would do its work properly, as this would hold them in the air, and
prevent accidents, in case of a stoppage of the engine or propellers.

The aeroplane part of the airship was all but finished, and the motor,
a powerful machine, of new design, built by Mr. Swift, was ready to be
installed.

All that afternoon Tom, his father and Mr. Sharp labored in the shop.
As it grew dusk there sounded from the house the ringing of a bell.

"Supper time," remarked Tom, laying aside a wrench. "I wish Mrs.
Baggert would wait about an hour. I'd have this valve nearly done,
then."

But the housekeeper was evidently not going to wait, for her voice
supplemented the bell.

"Supper! Sup-per!" she called. "Come now, Mr. Swift; Tom, Mr. Sharp! I
can't wait any longer! The meat and potatoes will be spoiled!"

"I s'pose we'd better go in," remarked Mr. Sharp, with something of a
sigh. "We can finish to-morrow."

The shop, where certain parts of the airship were being made, was
doubly locked, and Jackson, the engineer, who was also a sort of
watchman, was bidden to keep good guard, for the fear of the gang of
unscrupulous men, who had escaped from jail during a great storm, was
still in the minds of Mr. Swift and his son.

"And give an occasional look in the shed, where the aeroplane is,"
advised Mr. Sharp. "It wouldn't take much to damage that, now."

"I'll pay particular attention to it," promised the engineer. "Don't
worry, Mr. Sharp."

After supper the three gathered around the table on which were spread
out sheets of paper, covered with intricate figures and calculations,
which Mr. Swift and the balloonist went over with care. Tom was
examining some blue prints, which gave a sectional view of the proposed
ship, and was making some measurements when the bell rang, and Mrs.
Baggert ushered in Ned Newton, the most particular chum of the young
inventor.

"Hello, Ned!" exclaimed Tom. "I was wondering what had become of you.
Haven't seen you in a dog's age."

"That's right," admitted Ned. "We've been working late nights at the
bank. Getting ready for the regular visit of the examiner, who usually
comes along about this time. Well, how are things going; and how is the
airship?" for, of course, Ned had heard of that.

"Oh, pretty good. Had another explosion to-day, I s'pose you heard."

"No, I hadn't."

"I thought everyone in town had, for Andy Foger and his two cronies
were on hand, and they usually tell all they know."

"Oh, Andy Foger! He makes me sick! He was scooting up the street in his
auto just as I was coming in, 'honking-honking' his horn to beat the
band! You'd think no one ever had an auto but him. He certainly was
going fast."

"Wait until I get in our airship," predicted Tom. "Then I'll show you
what speed is!"

"Do you really think it will go fast?"

"Of course it will! Fast enough to catch Anson Morse and his crowd of
scoundrels if we could get on their track."

"Why, I thought they were in jail," replied Ned, in some surprise.
"Weren't they arrested after they stole your boat?"

"Yes, and put in jail, but they managed to get out, and now they're
free to make trouble for us again."

"Are you sure they're out of jail?" asked Ned, and Tom noted that his
chum's face wore an odd look.

"Sure? Of course I am. But why do you ask?"

Ned did not answer for a moment. He glanced at Tom's father, and the
young inventor understood. Mr. Swift was getting rather along in age,
and his long years of brain work had made him nervous. He had a great
fear of Morse and his gang, for they had made much trouble for him in
the past. Tom appreciated his chum's hesitancy, and guessed that Ned
had something to say that he did not want Mr. Swift to hear.

"Come on up to my room, Ned. I've got something I want to show you,"
exclaimed Tom, after a pause.

The two lads left the room, Tom glancing apprehensively at his father.
But Mr. Swift was so engrossed, together with the aeronaut, in making
some calculations regarding wind pressure, that it is doubtful if
either of the men were aware that the boys had gone.

"Now what is it, Ned?" demanded our hero, when they were safe in his
apartment. "Something's up. I can tell by your manner. What is it?"

"Maybe it's nothing at all," went on his chum. "If I had known, though
that those men had gotten out of jail, I would have paid more attention
to what I saw to-night, as I was leaving the bank to come here."

"What did you see?" demanded Tom, and his manner, which had been calm,
became somewhat excited.

"Well, you know I've been helping the paying-teller straighten up his
books," went on the young bank employee, "and when I came out to-night,
after working for several hours, I was glad enough to hurry away from
the 'slave-den,' as I call it. I almost ran up the street, not looking
where I was going, when, just as I turned the corner, I bumped into a
man."

"Nothing suspicious or wonderful in that," commented Tom. "I've often
run into people."

"Wait," advised Ned. "To save myself from falling I grabbed the man's
arm. He did the same to me, and there we stood, for a moment, right
under a gas lamp. I looked down at his hands, and I saw that on the
little finger of the left one there was tattooed a blue ring, and--"

"Happy Harry--the tramp!" exclaimed Tom, now much excited. "That's
where he wears a tattooed ring!"

"That's what I thought you had told me," resumed Ned, "but I didn't pay
any attention to it at the time, as I had no idea that the men were out
of jail."

"Well, what else happened?" inquired Tom

"Not much more. I apologized to the man, and he to me, and we let go of
each other."

"Are you sure about the ring on his finger?"

"Positive. His hand was right in the light. But wait, that isn't all.
I hurried on, not thinking much about it, when, I saw another man step
out of the dark shadows of Peterby's grocery, just beyond the bank.
The man must have mistaken me for some one else, for he spoke to me."

"What did he say?"

"He asked me a question. It was: 'Is there any chance to-night?'"

"What did you tell him?"

"Well, I was so surprised that I didn't know what to say, and, before I
could get my wits together the man had seen his mistake and hurried on.
He joined the man I had collided with, and the two skipped off in the
darkness. But not before a third man had come across the street, from
in front of the bank, and hurried off with them."

"Well?" asked Tom, as his chum paused.

"I don't know what to think," resumed Ned. "These men were certainly
acting suspiciously, and, now that you tell me the Anson Morse gang is
not locked up--well, it makes me feel that these must be some of their
crowd."

"Of course they are!" declared Tom positively. "That blue ring proves
it!"

"I wouldn't go so far as to say that," declared Ned. "The man certainly
had a blue ring tattooed on his finger--the same finger where you say
Happy Harry had his. But what would the men be doing in this
neighborhood? They certainly have had a lesson not to meddle with any
of your things."

"No, I don't believe they are after any of dad's inventions this time.
But I tell you what I do believe."

"What?"

"Those men are planning to rob the Shopton Bank, Ned! And I advise you
to notify the officers. That Morse gang is one of the worst in the
country," and Tom, much excited, began to pace the room, while Ned, who
had not dreamed of such an outcome to his narrative, looked startled.




Chapter 3

Whitewashed


"Let's tell your father, Tom," suggested Ned, after a pause. "He'll
know what to do."

"No, I'd rather not," answered the young inventor quickly. "Dad has had
trouble enough with these fellows, and I don't want him to worry any
more. Besides, he is working on a new invention, and if I tell him
about the Happy Harry gang it will take his attention from it."

"What invention is he planning now?"

"I don't know, but it's something important by the way he keeps at it.
He hardly spares time to help Mr. Sharp and me on the airship. No,
we'll keep this news from dad."

"Then I'll inform the bank officials, as you suggest. If the place was
robbed they might blame me; if they found out I had seen the men and
failed to tell them."

"Well, that gang would only be too glad to have the blame fall on some
one else."

Tom little knew how near the truth he had come in his chance
expression, or how soon he himself was to fall under suspicion in
connection with this same band of bad men.

"I'll telephone to the president on my way home," decided Ned, "and he
can notify the watchman at the bank. But do you really expect to have
your airship in shape to fly soon?"

"Oh, yes. Now that we have found out our mistake about the gas, the
rest will be easy."

"I think I'd like to take a trip in one myself, if it didn't go too
high," ventured Ned.

"I'll remember that, when we have ours completed," promised his chum,
"and I'll take you for a spin."

The boys talked for perhaps an hour longer, mostly about the airship,
for it was the latest mechanical affair in which Tom was interested,
and, naturally, foremost in his thoughts. Then Ned went home first,
however, telephoning from Tom's house to the bank president about
having seen the suspicious men. That official thanked his young
employee, and said he would take all necessary precautions. The
telephone message was not sent until Mr. Swift was out of hearing, as
Tom was determined that his father should have no unnecessary worry
about the unscrupulous men. As it was, the news that the gang was out
of jail had caused the aged inventor some alarm.

It was not without some anxiety that Tom arose the next morning,
fearing he would hear news that the bank had been broken into, but no
such alarming report circulated in Shopton. In fact having made some
inquiries that day of Ned, he learned that no trace had been seen of
the mysterious men. The police had been on the lookout, but they had
seen nothing of them.

"Maybe, after all, they weren't the same ones," suggested Ned, when he
paid Tom another visit the next night.

"Well, of course it's possible that they weren't," admitted the young
inventor. "I'd be very glad to think so. Even if they were, your
encounter with them may have scared them off; and that would be a good
thing."

The next two weeks were busy ones for Tom and Mr. Sharp. Aided
occasionally by Mr. Swift, and with Garret Jackson, the engineer, to
lend a hand whenever needed, the aeronaut and the owner of the speedy
Arrow made considerable progress on their airship.

"What is your father so busy over?" asked Mr. Sharp one day, when the
new aluminum gas holder was about completed.

"I don't know," answered Tom, with a somewhat puzzled air. "He doesn't
seem to want to talk about it, even to me. He says it will
revolutionize travel along a certain line, but whether he is working on
an airship that will rival ours, or a new automobile, I can't make out.
He'll tell us in good time. But when do you think we will finish
the--well, I don't know what to call it--I mean our aeroplane?"

"Oh, in about a month now. That's so, though, we haven't a name for it.
But we'll christen it after it's completed. Now if you'll tighten up
some of those bolts I'll get the gas generating apparatus in readiness
for another test."

A short description of the new airship may not be out of place now. It
was built after plans Mr. Sharp had shown to Tom and his father soon
after the thrilling rescue of the aeronaut from the blazing balloon
over Lake Carlopa. The general idea of the airship was that of the
familiar aeroplane, but in addition to the sustaining surfaces of the
planes, there was an aluminum, cigar-shaped tank, holding a new and
very powerful gas, which would serve to keep the ship afloat even when
not in motion.

Two sets of planes, one above the other, were used, bringing the
airship into the biplane class. There were also two large propellers,
one in front and the other at the rear. These were carefully made, of
different layers of wood "built up" as they are called, to make them
stronger. They were eight feet in diameter, and driven by a
twenty-cylinder, air-cooled, motor, whirled around at the rate of
fifteen hundred revolutions a minute. When operated at full speed the
airship was capable of making eighty miles an hour, against a moderate
wind.

But if the use of the peculiarly-shaped planes and the gas container,
with the secret but powerful vapor in it were something new in airship
construction, so was the car in which the operator and travelers were
to live during a voyage. It was a complete living room, with the engine
and other apparatus, including that for generating the gas, in a
separate compartment, and the whole was the combined work of Tom and
Mr. Sharp. There were accommodations for five persons, with sleeping
berths, a small galley or kitchen, where food could be prepared, and
several easy chairs where the travelers could rest in comfort while
skimming along high in the air, as fast as the fastest railroad train.

There was room enough to carry stores for a voyage of a week or more,
and enough gas could be manufactured aboard the ship, in addition to
that taken in the aluminum case before starting, to sustain the ship
for two weeks. The engine, steering apparatus, and the gas machine were
within easy reach and control of the pilot, who was to be stationed in
a small room in the "bow" of the ship. An electric stove served to warm
the interior of the car, and also provided means for cooking the food.

The airship could be launched either by starting it along the ground,
on rubber-tired wheels, as is done in the case of the ordinary
aeroplane, or it could be lifted by the gas, just as is done with a
balloon. In short there were many novel features about the ship.

The gas test, which took place a few days later, showed that the young
inventor and Mr. Sharp had made no mistake this time. No explosion
followed, the needle valve controlling the powerful vapor perfectly.

"Well," remarked Mr. Sharp, one afternoon, "I think we shall put the
ship together next week, Tom, and have a trial flight. We shall need a
few more aluminum bolts, though, and if you don't mind you might jump
on your motor-cycle and run to Mansburg for them. Merton's machine shop
ought to have some."

Mansburg was the nearest large city to Shopton, and Merton was a
machinist who frequently did work for Mr. Swift.

"All right," agreed Tom. "I'll start now. How many will you need?"

"Oh, a couple of dozen."

Tom started off, wheeling his cycle from the shed where it was kept.
As he passed the building where the big frame of the airship, with the
planes and aluminum bag had been assembled, he looked in.

"We'll soon be flying through the clouds on your back," he remarked,
speaking to the apparatus as if it could understand. "I guess we'll
smash some records, too, if that engine works as well when it's
installed as it does now."

Tom had purchased the bolts, and was on his way back with them, when,
as he passed through one of the outlying streets of Mansburg, something
went wrong with his motor-cycle. He got off to adjust it, finding that
it was only a trifling matter, which he soon put right, when he was
aware of a man standing, observing him. Without looking up at the man's
face, the young inventor was unpleasantly aware of a sharp scrutiny. He
could hardly explain it, but it seemed as if the man had evil
intentions toward him, and it was not altogether unexpected on Tom's
part, when, looking up, he saw staring at him, Anson Morse, the leader
of the gang of men who had caused such trouble for him.

"Oh, it's you; is it?" asked Morse, an ugly scowl on his face. "I
thought I recognized you." He moved nearer to Tom, who straightened up,
and stood leaning on his wheel.

"Yes; it's me," admitted the lad.

"I've been looking for you," went on Morse. "I'm not done with you yet,
nor your father, either."

"Aren't you?" asked Tom, trying to speak coolly, though his heart was
beating rather faster than usual. Morse had spoken in a threatening
manner, and, as the youth looked up and down the street he saw that it
was deserted; nor were there any houses near.

"No, I'm not," snapped the man. "You got me and my friends in a lot of
trouble, and--"

"You didn't get half what you deserved!" burst out Tom, indignant at
the thought of what he and his father had suffered at the hands of the
gang. "You ought to be in jail now, instead of out; and if I could see
a policeman, I'd have you arrested for threatening me! That's against
the law!"

"Huh! I s'pose you think you know lots about the law," sneered Morse.
"Well, I tell you one thing, if you make any further trouble for me,
I'll--"

"I'll make all the trouble I can!" cried Tom, and he boldly faced the
angry man. "I'm not afraid of you!"

"You'd better be!" and Morse spoke in a vindictive manner. "We'll get
even with you yet, Tom Swift. In fact I've a good notion now to give
you a good thrashing for what you've done."

Before Tom was aware of the man's intention, Morse had stepped quickly
into the street, where the lad stood beside his wheel, and grasped him
by the shoulder. He gave Tom a vicious shake.

"Take your hand off me!" cried Tom, who was hampered by having to hold
up his heavy machine.

"I will when I've given you what I owe you!" retorted the scoundrel.
"I'm going to have satisfaction now if I never--"

At that instant there came from down the street the sound of a rattling
and bumping. Tom looked up quickly, and saw approaching a rattletrap of
a wagon, drawn by a big, loose-jointed mule, the large ears of which
were flapping to and fro. The animal was advancing rapidly, in response
to blows and words from the colored driver, and, before the uplifted
fist of Morse could fall on Tom's head, the outfit was opposite them.

"Hold on dar, mistah! Hold on!" cried the colored man in the wagon.
"What are yo' doin' to mah friend, Mistah Swift?"

"None of your business!" snapped Morse. "You drive on and let me manage
this affair if you don't want trouble! Who are you anyhow?"

"Why doan't yo' know me?" asked the colored man, at whom Tom looked
gratefully. "I's Eradicate Sampson, an' dish yeah am mah mule,
Boomerang. Whoa, Boomerang! I reckon yo' an' I better take a hand in
dish yeah argument."

"Not unless you want trouble!" cried Morse.

"I doan't mind trouble, not in de leastest," answered Eradicate
cheerfully. "Me an' Boomerang has had lots of trouble. We's used to it.
No, Mistah Man, you'd better let go ob mah friend, Mistah Swift, if yo'
doan't want trouble yo' ownse'f."

"Drive on, and mind your business!" cried Morse, now unreasoningly
angry. "This is my affair," and he gave Tom a shake.

Our hero was not going to submit tamely, however. He had one hand free,
and raised to strike Morse, but the latter, letting go his hold on the
lad's shoulder, grasped with that hand, the fist which the young
inventor had raised. Then, with his other hand, the scoundrel was about
to hit Tom.

"Break away four him, Mistah Swift!" directed the colored man. "Yo' can
fight him, den!"

"I guess he'll have his own troubles doing that," sneered Morse.

"Not ef I help him," answered Eradicate promptly, as he climbed back
off the seat, into the body of his ramshackle vehicle.

"Don't you interfere with me!" stormed the man.

An instant later Tom broke away from his tormentor, and laid his
motor-cycle on the ground, in order to have both hands free for the
attack he felt would follow.

"Ha! You think you're going to escape, do you?" cried Morse, as he
started toward Tom, his eyes blazing. "I'll show you who you're dealing
with!"

"Yes, an' I reckon I'll show yo' suffin yo' ain't lookin' fer!"
suddenly cried Eradicate.

With a quick motion he picked up a pail of white-wash from his wagon,
and, with sure aim, emptied the contents of the bucket over Morse, who
was rushing at Tom. The white fluid spread over the man from head to
foot, enveloping him as in a white shroud, and his advance was
instantly checked.

"Dar! I reckon dat's de quickest white-washin' job I done in some
time!" chuckled Eradicate, as he grasped his long handled brush, and
clambered down from the wagon, ready for a renewal of the hostilities
on the part of Morse. "De bestest white-washin' job I done in some
time; yais, sah!"




Chapter 4

A Trial Trip


There was no fear that Anson Morse would return to the attack. Blinded
by the whitewash which ran in his eyes, but which, being slaked, did
not burn him, he grouped blindly about, pawing the air with his
outstretched hands.

"You wait! You wait! You'll suffer for this!" he spluttered, as soon as
he could free his mouth from the trickling fluid. Then, wiping it from
his face, with his hands, as best he could, he shook his fist at Tom.
"I'll pay you and that black rascal back!" he cried. "You wait!"

"I hopes yo' pays me soon," answered Eradicate, "'case as how dat
whitewash was wuff twenty-five cents, an' I got t' go git mo' to finish
doin' a chicken coop I'm wurkin' on. Whoa, dar Boomerang. Dere ain't
goin' t' be no mo' trouble I reckon."

Morse did not reply. He had been most unexpectedly repulsed, and, with
the white-wash dripping from his garments, he turned and fairly ran
toward a strip of woodland that bordered the highway at that place.

Tom approached the colored man, and held out a welcoming hand.

"I don't know what I'd done if you hadn't come along, Rad," the lad
said. "That fellow was desperate, and this was a lonely spot to be
attacked. Your whitewash came in mighty handy."

"Yais, sah, Mistah Swift, dat's what it done. I knowed I could use it
on him, ef he got too obstreperous, an' dat's what he done. But I were
goin' to fight him wif mah bresh, ef he'd made any more trouble."

"Oh, I fancy we have seen the last of him for some time," said Tom, but
he looked worried. It was evident that the Happy Harry gang was still
hanging around the neighborhood of Shopton, and the fact that Morse was
bold enough to attack our hero in broad day-light argued that he felt
little fear of the authorities.

"Ef yo' wants t' catch him, Mistah Swift," went on Eradicate, "yo' kin
trace him by de whitewash what drops offen him," and he pointed to a
trail of white drops which showed the path Morse had taken.

"No, the less I have to do with him the better I like it," answered the
lad. "But I can't thank you enough, Rad. You have helped me out of
difficulties several times now. You put me on the trail of the men in
the deserted mansion, you warned me of the log Andy Foger placed across
the road, and now you have saved me from Morse."

"Oh, dat's nuffin, Mistah Swift. Yo' has suah done lots fo' me.
'Sides, mah mule, Boomerang, am entitled t' de most credit dish yeah
time. I were comin' down de street, on mah way t' a whitewashin' job,
when I seen yo', an yo' lickitysplit machine," for so Eradicate
designated a motorcycle. "I knowed it were yo', an' I didn't laik de
looks ob dat man. Den I see he had hold ob you, an' I t'ought he were a
burglar. So I yelled t' Boomerang t' hurry up. Now, mostly, when I
wants Boomerang t' hurry, he goes slow, an' when I wants him t' go
slow, he runs away. But dish yeah time he knowed he were comin' t' help
yo', an' he certainly did leg it, dat's what he done! He run laik he
were goin' home t' a stable full ob oats, an' dat's how I got heah so
quick. Den I t'ought ob de whitewash, an' I jest used it."

"It was the most effective weapon you could have used," said Tom,
gratefully.

"Deed no, Mistah Swift, I didn't hab no weapon," spoke Eradicate
earnestly. "I ain't eben got mah razor, 'case I left it home. I didn't
hab no weapon at all. I jest used de whitewash, laik yo' seen me."

"That's what I meant," answered Tom, trying not to laugh at the simple
negro's misunderstanding. "I'm ever so much obliged to you, just the
same, and here's a half dollar to pay for the whitewash."

"Oh, no, Mistah Swift, I doan't want t' take it. I kin make mo'
whitewash."

But Tom insisted, and picked up his machine to sprint for home.
Eradicate started to tell over again, how he urged Boomerang on, but
the lad had no time to listen.

"But I didn't hab no weapon, Mistah Swift, no indeedy, none at all, not
even mah razor," repeated Eradicate. "Only de pail ob whitewash.  That
is, lessen yo' calls mah bresh a weapon."

"Well, it's a sort of one," admitted Tom, with a laugh as he started
his machine. "Come around next week, Rad. We have some dirt eradicating
for you to attend to."

"Deed an' I will, Mistah Swift. Eradicate is mah name, an' I eradicates
de dirt. But dat man such did look odd, wif dat pail ob whitewash all
ober him. He suah did look most extraordinarily. Gidap, Boomerang. See
if yo' can break some mo' speed records now."

But the mule appeared to be satisfied with what he had done, and, as he
rode off, Tom looked back to see the colored man laboring to get the
sleepy, animal started.

The lad did not tell his father of the adventure with Morse, but he
related the occurrence to Mr. Sharp.

"I'd like to get hold of that scoundrel, and the others in the gang!"
exclaimed the balloonist. "I'd take him up in the airship, and drop him
down into the lake. He's a bad man. So are the others. Wonder what they
want around here?"

"That's what's puzzling me," admitted Tom. "I hope dad doesn't hear
about them or he will be sure to worry; and maybe it will interfere
with his new ideas."

"He hasn't told you yet what he's engaged in inventing; has he?"

"No, and I don't like to ask him. He said the other day, though, that
it would rival our airship, but in a different way."

"I wonder what he meant?"

"It's hard to say. But I don't believe he can invent anything that will
go ahead of our craft, even if he is my own father, and the best one in
the world," said Tom, half jokingly. "Well, I got the bolts, now let's
get to work. I'm anxious for a trial trip."

"No more than I am. I want to see if my ideas will work out in practice
as well as they do in theory."

For a week or more Tom and Mr. Sharp labored on the airship, with Mr.
Jackson to help them. The motor, with its twenty cylinders, was
installed, and the big aluminum holder fastened to the frame of the
planes. The rudders, one to control the elevation and depression of the
craft, and the other to direct its flight to the right or left, were
attached, and the steering wheel, as well as the levers regulating the
motor were put in place.

"About all that remains to be done now," said the aeronaut one night,
as he and Tom stood in the big shed, looking at their creation, "is to
fit up the car, and paint the machine."

"Can't we make a trial trip before we fit up the car ready for a long
flight?" asked the young inventor.

"Yes, but I wouldn't like to go out without painting the ship. Some
parts of it might rust if we get into the moist, cloudy, upper regions."

"Then let's paint it to-morrow, and, as soon as it's dry we'll have a
test."

"All right. I'll mix the paint the first thing in the morning."

It took two days to paint the machine, for much care had to be used,
and, when it was finished Tom looked admiringly up at it.

"We ought to name it," suggested Mr. Sharp, as he removed a bit of
paint from the end of the nose.

"To be sure," agreed Tom. "And hold on, I have the very name for
it--Red Cloud!"

"Red Cloud?" questioned Mr. Sharp.

"Yes!" exclaimed Tom, with enthusiasm. "It's painted red--at least the
big, aluminum gas container is--and we hope to go above the clouds in
it. Why not Red Cloud?"

"That's what it shall be!" conceded the balloonist. "If I had a bottle
of malted milk, or something like that, I'd christen it."

"We ought to have a young lady to do that part," suggested Tom. "They
always have young ladies to name ships."

"Were you thinking of any particular young lady?" asked Mr. Sharp
softly, and Tom blushed; as he replied:

"Oh no--of course that is--well--Oh, hang it, christen it yourself, and
let me alone," he finished.

"Well, in the absence of Miss Mary Nestor, who, I think, would be the
best one for the ceremony," said Mr. Sharp, with a twinkle in his eyes,
"I christen thee Red Cloud," and with that he sprinkled some water on
the pointed nose of the red aluminum gas bag, for the aeronaut and Tom
were on a high staging, on a level with the upper part of the airship.

"Red Cloud it is!" cried Tom, enthusiastically. "Now, to-morrow we'll
see what it can do."

The day of the test proved all that could be desired in the way of
weather. The fact that an airship was being constructed in the Swift
shops had been kept as secret as possible, but of course many in
Shopton knew of it, for Andy Foger had spread the tidings.

"I hope we won't have a crowd around to see us go up," said Tom, as he
and Mr. Sharp went to the shed to get the Red Cloud in readiness for
the trial. "I shouldn't want to have them laugh at us, if we fail to
rise."

"Don't worry. We'll go up all right," declared Mr. Sharp. "The only
thing I'm at all worried about is our speed. I want to go fast, but we
may not be able to until our motor gets 'tuned-up'.  But we'll rise."

The gas machine had already been started, and the vapor was hissing
inside the big aluminum holder. It was decided to try to go up under
the lifting power of the gas, and not use the aeroplane feature for
sending aloft the ship, as there was hardly room, around the shops, for
a good start.

When enough of the vapor had been generated to make the airship
buoyant, the big doors of the shed were opened, and Tom and Mr. Sharp,
with the aid of Garret and Mr. Swift, shoved it slowly out.

"There it is! There she comes!" cried several voices outside the high
fence that surrounded the Swift property. "They're going up!"

"Andy Foger is in that bunch," remarked Tom with a grim smile. "I hope
we don't fail."

"We won't. Don't worry," advised Mr. Sharp.

The shouts outside the fence increased. It was evident that quite a
crowd of boys, as well as men, had collected, though it was early in
the morning. Somehow, news of the test had leaked out.

The ship continued to get lighter and lighter as more gas was
generated. It was held down by ropes, fastened to stakes driven in the
ground. Mr. Sharp entered the big car that was suspended, below the
aeroplanes.

"Come on, Tom," the aeronaut called. "We're almost ready to fly. Will
you come too, Mr. Swift, and Garret?"

"Some other time," promised the aged inventor. "It looks as though you
were going to succeed, though. I'll wait, however, until after the test
before I venture."

"How about you, Garret?" asked Tom of the engineer, as the young
inventor climbed into the car.

"The ground is good enough for me," was the answer, with a smile.
"Broken bones don't mend so easily when you're past sixty-five."

"But we're not going to fall!" declared Mr. Sharp. "All ready, Tom.
Cast off! Here we go!"

The restraining ropes were quickly cast aside. Slowly at first, and
then with a rush, as though feeling more and more sure of herself, the
Red Cloud arose in the air like a gigantic bird of scarlet plumage. Up
and up it went, higher than the house, higher than the big shed where
it had been built, higher, higher, higher!

"There she is!" cried the shrill voices of the boys in the meadow, and
the hoarser tones of the men mingled with them.

"Hurrah!" called Tom softly to the balloonist. "We're off!" and he
waved his hand to his father and Garret.

"I told you so," spoke Mr. Sharp confidently. "I'm going to start the
propellers in a minute."

"Oh, dear me, goodness sakes alive!" cried Mrs. Baggert, the
housekeeper, running from the house and wringing her hands. "I'm sure
they'll fall!"

She looked up apprehensively, but Tom only waved his hand to her, and
threw her a kiss. Clearly he had no fears, though it was the first time
he had ever been in an airship. Mr. Sharp was as calm and collected as
an ocean captain making his hundredth trip across the Atlantic.

"Throw on the main switch," he called to our hero, and Tom, moving to
amidships in the car, did as directed. Mr. Sharp pulled several levers,
adjusted some valves, and then, with a rattle and bang, the huge,
twenty-cylinder motor started.

Waiting a moment to see that it was running smoothly, Mr. Sharp grasped
the steering wheel. Then, with a quick motion he threw the two
propellers in gear. They began to whirl around rapidly.

"Here we go!" cried Tom, and, sure enough, the Red Cloud, now five
hundred feet in the air, shot forward, like a boat on the water, only
with such a smooth, gliding, easy motion, that it seemed like being
borne along on a cloud.

"She works! She works!" cried the balloonist. "Now to try our elevation
rudder," and, as the Red Cloud gathered speed, he tilted the small
planes which sent the craft up or down, according to the manner in
which they were tilted. The next instant the airship was pointed at an
angle toward the clouds, and shooting along at swift speed, while, from
below came the admiring cheers of the crowd of boys and men.




Chapter 5

Colliding With A Tower


"She seems to work," observed Tom, looking from where he was stationed
near some electrical switches, toward Mr. Sharp.

"Of course she does," replied the aeronaut. "I knew it would, but I
wasn't so sure that it would scoot along in this fashion. We're making
pretty good speed, but we'll do better when the motor gets to running
smoother."

"How high up are we?" asked Tom.

The balloonist glanced at several gauges near the steering wheel.

"A little short of three thousand feet," he answered. "Do you want to
go higher?"

"No--no--I--I guess not," was Tom's answer. He halted over the works,
and his breath came in gasps.

"Don't get alarmed," called Mr. Sharp quickly, noting that his
companion was in distress because of the high altitude. "That always
happens to persons who go into a thin air for the first time; just as
if you had climbed a high mountain. Breathe as slowly as you can, and
swallow frequently. That will relieve the pressure on your ear drums.
I'll send the ship lower."

Tom did as he was advised, and the aeronaut, deflecting the rudder,
sent the Red Cloud on a downward slant. Tom at once felt relieved, both
because the action of swallowing equalized the pressure on the ear
drums, and because the airship was soon in a more dense atmosphere,
more like that of the earth.

"How are you now?" asked the man of the lad, as the craft was again on
an even keel.

"All right," replied Tom, briskly. "I didn't know what ailed me at
first."

"I was troubled the same way when I first went up in a balloon,"
commented Mr. Sharp. "We'll run along for a few miles, at an elevation
of about five hundred feet, and then we'll go to within a hundred feet
of the earth, and see how the Red Cloud behaves under different
conditions. Take a look below and see what you think of it."

Tom looked low, through one of several plate glass windows in the floor
of the car. He gave a gasp of astonishment.

"Why! We're right over Lake Carlopa!" he gasped.

"Of course," admitted Mr. Sharp with a laugh. "And I'm glad to say that
we're better off than when I was last in the air over this same body of
water," and he could scarcely repress a shudder as he thought of his
perilous position in the blazing balloon, as related in detail in "Tom
Swift and His Motor-Boat."

The lake was spread out below the navigators of the air like some
mirror of silver in a setting of green fields. Tom could see a winding
river, that flowed into the lake, and he noted towns, villages, and
even distant cities, interspersed here and there with broad farms or
patches of woodlands, like a bird's-eye view of a stretch of country.

"This is great!" he exclaimed, with enthusiasm. "I wouldn't miss this
for the world!"

"Oh, you haven't begun to see things yet," replied Mr. Sharp. "Wait
until we take a long trip, which we'll do soon, as this ship is
behaving much better than I dared to hope. Well, we're five hundred
feet high now, and I'll run along at that elevation for a while."

Objects on the earth became more distinct now, and Tom could observe
excited throngs running along and pointing upward. They were several
miles from Shopton, and the machinery was running smoothly; the motor,
with its many cylinders purring like a big cat.

"We could have lunch, if we'd brought along anything to eat," observed
Tom.

"Yes," assented his companion. "But I think we'll go back now. Your
father may be anxious. Just come here, Tom, and I'll show you how to
steer. I'm going down a short distance."

He depressed the rudder, and the Red Cloud shot earthward. Then, as the
airship was turned about, the young inventor was allowed to try his
hand at managing it. He said, afterward, that it was like guiding a
fleecy cloud.

"Point her straight for Shopton," counseled Mr. Sharp, when he had
explained the various wheels and levers to the lad.

"Straight she is," answered the lad, imitating a sailor's reply. "Oh,
but this is great! It beats even my motor-boat!"

"It goes considerably faster, at all events," remarked Mr. Sharp.
"Keep her steady now, while I take a look at the engine. I want to be
sure it doesn't run hot."

He went aft, where all the machinery in the car was located, and Tom
was left alone in the small pilot house. He felt a thrill as he looked
down at the earth beneath him, and saw the crowds of wonder-gazers
pointing at the great, red airship flying high over their heads.
Rapidly the open fields slipped along, giving place to a large city.

"Rocksmond," murmured Tom, as he noted it. "We're about fifty miles
from home, but we'll soon be back in the shed at this rate. We
certainly are slipping along. A hundred and fifty feet elevation," he
went on, as he looked at a gauge. "I wonder if I'll ever get used to
going several miles up in the air?"

He shifted the rudder a bit, to go to the left. The Red Cloud obeyed
promptly, but, the next instant something snapped. Tom, with a startled
air, looked around. He could see nothing wrong, but a moment later, the
airship dipped suddenly toward the earth. Then it seemed to increase
its forward speed, and, a few seconds later, was rushing straight at a
tall, ornamental tower that rose from one corner of a large building.

"Mr. Sharp! Mr. Sharp!" cried the lad. "Something has happened! We're
heading for that tower!"

"Steer to one side!" called the balloonist.

Tom tried, but found that the helm had become jammed. The horizontal
rudder would not work, and the craft was rushing nearer and nearer,
every minute, to the pile of brick and mortar.

"We're going to have a collision!" shouted Tom. "Better shut off the
power!"

The two propellers were whirling around so swiftly that they looked
like blurs of light. Mr. Sharp came rushing forward, and Tom
relinquished the steering wheel to him. In vain did the aeronaut try to
change the course of the airship. Then, with a shout to Tom to
disconnect the electric switch, the man turned off the power from the
motor.

But it was too late. Straight at the tower rushed the Red Cloud, and, a
moment later had hit it a glancing blow, smashing the forward
propeller, and breaking off both blades. The nose of the aluminum gas
container knocked off a few bricks from the tower, and then, the ship
losing way, slowly settled to the flat roof of the building.

"We're smashed!" cried Tom, with something like despair in his voice.

"That's nothing! Don't worry! It might be worse! Not the first time
I've had an accident. It's only one propeller, and I can easily make
another," said Mr. Sharp, in his quick, jerky sentences. He had allowed
some of the gas to escape from the container, making the ship less
buoyant, so that it remained on the roof.

The aeronaut and Tom looked from the windows of the car, to note if any
further damage had been done. They were just congratulating themselves
that the rudder marked the extent, when, from a scuttle in the roof
there came a procession of young ladies, led by an elderly matron,
wearing spectacles and having a very determined, bristling air.

"Well, I must say, this is a very unceremonious proceeding!" exclaimed
the spectacled woman. "Pray, gentlemen, to what are we indebted for
this honor?"

"It was an accident, ma'am," replied Mr. Sharp, removing his hat, and
bowing. "A mere accident!"

"Humph! I suppose it was an accident that the tower of this building
was damaged, if not absolutely loosened at the foundations. You will
have to pay the damages!" Then turning, and seeing about two score of
young ladies behind her on the flat roof, each young lady eying with
astonishment, not unmixed with admiration, the airship, the elderly one
added: "Pupils! To your rooms at once! How dare you leave without
permission?"

"Oh, Miss Perkman!" exclaimed a voice, at the sound of which Tom
started. "Mayn't we see the airship? It will be useful in our natural
philosophy study!"

Tom looked at the young lady who had spoken. "Mary Nestor!" he
exclaimed.

"Tom--I mean Mr. Swift!" she rejoined. "How in the world did you get
here?"

"I was going to ask you the same question," retorted the lad. "We flew
here."

"Young ladies! Silence!" cried Miss Perkman, who was evidently the
principal of the school. "The idea of any one of you daring to speak to
these--these persons--without my permission, and without an
introduction! I shall make them pay heavily for damaging my seminary,"
she added, as she strode toward Mr. Sharp, who, by this time, was out
of the car. "To your rooms at once!" Miss Perkman ordered again, but
not a young lady moved. The airship was too much of an attraction for
them.




Chapter 6

Getting Off The Roof


For a few minutes Mr. Sharp was so engrossed with looking underneath
the craft, to ascertain in what condition the various planes and braces
were, that he paid little attention to the old maid school principal,
after his first greeting. But Miss Perkman was not a person to be
ignored.

"I want pay for the damage to the tower of my school," she went on. "I
could also demand damages for trespassing on my roof, but I will
refrain in this case. Young ladies, will you go to your rooms?" she
demanded.

"Oh, please, let us stay," pleaded Mary Nestor, beside whom Tom now
stood. "Perhaps Professor Swift will lecture on clouds and air currents
and--and such things as that," the girl went on slyly, smiling at the
somewhat embarrassed lad.

"Ahem! If there is a professor present, perhaps it might be a good idea
to absorb some knowledge," admitted the old maid, and, unconsciously,
she smoothed her hair, and settled her gold spectacles straighter on
her nose. "Professor, I will delay collecting damages on behalf of the
Rocksmond Young Ladies Seminary, while you deliver a lecture on air
currents," she went on, addressing herself to Mr. Sharp.

"Oh, I'm not a professor," he said quickly. "I'm a professional
balloonist, parachute jumper. Give exhibitions at county fairs. Leap
for life, and all that sort of thing. I guess you mean my friend. He's
smart enough for a professor. Invented a lot of things. How much is the
damage?"

"No professor?" cried Miss Perkman indignantly. "Why I understood from
Miss Nestor that she called some one professor."

"I was referring to my friend, Mr. Swift," said Mary. "His father's a
professor, anyhow, isn't he, Tom? I mean Mr. Swift!"

"I believe he has a degree, but he never uses it," was the lad's answer.

"Ha!  Then I have been deceived!  There is no professor present!" and
the old maid drew herself up as though desirous of punishing some one.
"Young ladies, for the last time, I order you to your rooms," and, with
a dramatic gesture she pointed to the scuttle through which the
procession had come.

"Say something, Tom--I mean Mr. Swift," appealed Mary Nestor, in a
whisper, to our hero. "Can't you give some sort of a lecture? The girls
are just crazy to hear about the airship, and this ogress won't let us.
Say something!"

"I--I don't know what to say," stammered Tom.

But he was saved the necessity for just then several women, evidently
other teachers, came out on the roof.

"Oh, an airship!" exclaimed one. "How lovely! We thought it was an
earthquake, and we were afraid to come up for quite a while. But an
airship! I've always wanted to see one, and now I have an opportunity.
It will be just the thing for my physical geography and natural history
class. Young ladies, attention, and I will explain certain things to
you."

"Miss Delafield, do you understand enough about an airship to lecture
on one?" asked Miss Perkman smartly.

"Enough so that my class may benefit," answered the other teacher, who
was quite pretty.

"Ahem! That is sufficient, and a different matter," conceded Miss
Perkman. "Young ladies, give your undivided attention to Miss
Delafield, and I trust you will profit by what she tells you.
Meanwhile I wish to have some conversation concerning damages with the
persons who so unceremoniously visited us. It is a shame that the
pupils of the Rocksmond Seminary should be disturbed at their studies.
Sir, I wish to talk with you," and the principal pointed a long,
straight finger at Mr. Sharp.

"Young ladies, attention!" called Miss Delafield. "You will observe the
large red body at the top, that is--"

"I'd rather have you explain it," whispered Mary Nestor to Tom. "Come
on, slip around to the other side. May I bring a few of my friends with
me? I can't bear Miss Delafield. She thinks she knows everything.  She
won't see us if we slip around."

"I shall be delighted," replied Tom, "only I fear I may have to help
Mr. Sharp out of this trouble."

"Don't worry about me, Tom," said the balloonist, who overheard him.
"Let me do the explaining. I'm an old hand at it. Been in trouble
before. Many a time I've had to pay damages for coming down in a
farmer's corn field. I'll attend to the lady principal, and you can
explain things to the young ones," and, with a wink, the jolly aeronaut
stepped over to where Miss Perkman, in spite of her prejudice against
the airship, was observing it curiously.

Glad to have the chance to talk to his young lady friend, Tom slipped
to the opposite side of the car with her and a few of her intimate
friends, to whom she slyly beckoned. There Tom told how the Red Cloud
came to be built, and of his first trip in the air, while, on the
opposite side, Miss Delafield lectured to the entire school on
aeronautics, as she thought she knew them.

Mr. Sharp evidently did know how to "explain" matters to the irate
principal, for, in a short while, she was smiling. By this time Tom had
about finished his little lecture, and Miss Delafield was at the end of
hers. The entire school of girls was grouped about the Red Cloud,
curiously examining it, but Mary Nestor and her friends probably
learned more than any of the others. Tom was informed that his friend
had been attending the school in Rocksmond since the fall term opened.

"I little thought, when I found we were going to smash into that tower,
that you were below there, studying," said the lad to the girl.

"I'm afraid I wasn't doing much studying," she confessed. "I had just a
glimpse of the airship through the window, and I was wondering who was
in it, when the crash came. Miss Perkman, who is nothing if not brave,
at once started for the roof, and we girls all followed her.  However,
are you going to get the ship down?"

"I'm afraid it is going to be quite a job," admitted Tom ruefully.
"Something went wrong with the machinery, or this never would have
happened. As soon as Mr. Sharp has settled with your principal we'll
see what we can do."

"I guess he's settled now," observed Miss Nestor. "Here he comes."

The aeronaut and Miss Perkman were approaching together, and the old
maid did not seem half so angry as she had been.

"You see," Mr. Sharp was saying, "it will be a good advertisement for
your school. Think of having the distinction of having harbored the
powerful airship, Red Cloud, on your roof."

"I never thought of it in that light," admitted the principal.
"Perhaps you are right. I shall put it in my next catalog."

"And, as for damages to the tower, we will pay you fifty dollars,"
continued the balloonist. "Do you agree to that, Mr. Swift?" he asked
Tom. "I think your father, the professor, would call that fair."

"Oh, as long as this airship is partly the property of a professor,
perhaps I should only take thirty-five dollars," put in Miss Perkman.
"I am a great admirer of professors--I mean in a strictly educational
sense," she went on, as she detected a tendency on the part of some of
the young ladies to giggle.

"No, fifty dollars will be about right," went on Mr. Sharp, pulling out
a well-filled wallet. "I will pay you now."

"And if you will wait I will give you a receipt," continued the
principal, evidently as much appeased at the mention of a professor's
title, as she was by the money.

"We're getting off cheap," the balloonist whispered to Tom, as the head
of the seminary started down the scuttle to the class-rooms below.

"Maybe it's easier getting out of that difficulty than it will be to
get off the roof," replied the lad.

"Don't worry. Leave that to me," the aeronaut said. It took
considerable to ruffle Mr. Sharp.

With a receipt in full for the damage to the tower, and expressing the
hope that, some day, in the near future, Professor Swift would do the
seminary the honor of lecturing to the young lady pupils, Miss Perkman
bade Mr. Sharp and Tom good-by.

"Young ladies, to your rooms!" she commanded. "You have learned enough
of airships, and there may be some danger getting this one off the
roof."

"Wouldn't you like to stay and take a ride in it?" Tom asked Miss
Nestor.

"Indeed I would," she answered daringly. "It's better than a
motor-boat. May I?"

"Some day, when we get more expert in managing it," he replied, as he
shook hands with her.

"Now for some hard work," went on the young inventor to Mr. Sharp, when
the roof was cleared of the last of the teachers and pupils. But the
windows that gave a view of the airship in its odd position on the roof
were soon filled with eager faces, while in the streets below was a
great crowd, offering all manner of suggestions.

"Oh, it's not going to be such a task," said Mr. Sharp. "First we will
repair the rudder and the machinery, and then we'll generate some more
gas, rise and fly home."

"But the broken propeller?" objected Tom.

"We can fly with one, as well as we can with two, but not so swiftly.
Don't worry. We'll come out all right," and the balloonist assumed a
confident air.

It was not so difficult a problem as Tom had imagined to put the
machinery in order, a simple break having impaired the working of the
rudder. Then the smashed propeller was unshipped and the gas machine
started. With all the pupils watching from windows, and a crowd
observing from the streets and surrounding country, for word of the
happening had spread, Tom and his friend prepared to ascend.

They arose as well as they had done at the shed at home, and in a
little while, were floating over the school. Tom fancied he could
observe a certain hand waving to him, as he peered from the window of
the car--a hand in one of the school casements, but where there were so
many pretty girls doing the same thing, I hardly see how Tom could pick
out any certain one, though he had extraordinarily good eyesight.
However, the airship was now afloat and, starting the motor, Mr. Sharp
found that even with one propeller the Red Cloud did fairly well,
making good speed.

"Now for home, to repair everything, and we'll be ready for a longer
trip," the aeronaut said to the young inventor, as they turned around,
and headed off before the wind, while hundreds below them cheered.

"We ought to carry spare propellers if we're going to smash into school
towers," remarked Tom. "I seem to be a sort of hoodoo."

"Nonsense! It wasn't your fault at all," commented Mr. Sharp warmly.
"It would have happened to me had I been steering. But we will take an
extra propeller along after this."

An hour later they arrived in front of the big shed and the Red Cloud
was safely housed. Mr. Swift was just beginning to get anxious about
his son and his friend, and was glad to welcome them back.

"Now for a big trip, in about a week!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp
enthusiastically. "You'll come with us, won't you, Mr. Swift?"

The inventor slowly shook his head.

"Not on a trip," he said. "I may go for a trial spin with you, but I've
got too important a matter under way to venture on a long trip," and he
turned away without explaining what it was. But Tom and Mr. Sharp were
soon to learn.




Chapter 7

Andy Tries a Trick


Without loss of time the young inventor and the aeronaut began to
repair the damage done to the Red Cloud by colliding with the tower.
The most important part to reconstruct was the propeller, and Mr. Sharp
decided to make two, instead of one, in order to have an extra one in
case of future accidents.

Tom's task was to arrange the mechanism so that, hereafter, the rudder
could not become jammed, and so prevent the airship from steering
properly. This the lad accomplished by a simple but effective device
which, when the balloonist saw it, caused him to compliment Tom.

"That's worth patenting," he declared. "I advise you to take out papers
on that."

"It seems such a simple thing," answered the youth. "And I don't see
much use of spending the money for a patent. Airships aren't likely to
be so numerous that I could make anything off that patent."

"You take my advice," insisted Mr. Sharp. "Airships are going to be
used more in the future than you have any idea of. You get that device
patented."

Tom did so, and, not many years afterward he was glad that he had, as
it brought him quite an income.

It required several days' work on the Red Cloud before it was in shape
for another trial. During the hours when he was engaged in the big
shed, helping Mr. Sharp, the young inventor spent many minutes calling
to mind the memory of a certain fair face, and I think I need not
mention any names to indicate whose face it was.

"She promised to go for a ride with me," mused the lad. "I hope she
doesn't back out. But I'll want to learn more about managing the ship
before I venture with her in it. It won't do to have any accidents
then. There's Ned Newton, too. I must take him for a skim in the
clouds. Guess I'll invite him over some afternoon, and give him a
private view of the machine, when we get it in shape again."

About a week after the accident at the school Mr. Sharp remarked to Tom
one afternoon:

"If the weather is good to-morrow, we'll try another flight. Do you
suppose your father will come along?"

"I don't know," answered the lad. "He seems much engrossed in
something. It's unusual, too, for he most generally tells me what he is
engaged upon. However, I guess he will say something about it when he
gets ready."

"Well, if he doesn't feel just like coming, don't argue him. He might
be nervous, and, while the ship is new, I don't want any nervous
passengers aboard. I can't give them my attention and look after the
running of the machinery."

"I was going to propose bringing a friend of mine over to see us make
the trip to-morrow," went on the young inventor. "Ned Newton, you know
him. He'd like a ride."

"Oh, I guess Ned's all right. Let him come along. We won't go very high
to-morrow. After a trial rise by means of the gas, I'm going to lower
the ship to the ground, and try for an elevation by means of the
planes. Oh, yes, bring your friend along."

Ned Newton was delighted the next day to receive Tom's invitation, and,
though a little dubious about trusting himself in an airship for the
first time, finally consented to go with his chum. He got a half
holiday from the bank, and, shortly after dinner went to Tom's house.

"Come on out in the shed and take a look at the Red Cloud," proposed
the young inventor. "Mr. Sharp isn't quite ready to start yet, and I'll
explain some things to you."

The big shed was deserted when the lads entered, and went to the loft
where they were on a level with the big, red aluminum tank. Tom began
with a description of the machinery, and Ned followed him with interest.

"Now we'll go down into the car or cabin," continued the young
navigator of the air, "and I'll show you what we do when we're touring
amid the clouds."

As they started to descend the flight of steps from the loft platform,
a noise on the ground below attracted their attention.

"Guess that's Mr. Sharp coming," said Ned.

Tom leaned over and looked down. An instant later he grasped the arm of
his chum, and motioned to him to keep silent.

"Take a look," whispered the young inventor.

"Andy Foger!" exclaimed Ned, peering over the railing.

"Yes, and Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey are with him. They sneaked in
when I left the door open. Wonder what they want?"

"Up to some mischief, I'll wager," commented Ned. "Hark! They're
talking."

The two lads on the loft listened intently. Though the cronies on the
ground below them did not speak loudly, their voices came plainly to
the listeners.

"Let's poke a hole in their gas bag," proposed Sam. "That will make
them think they're not so smart as they pretend."

"Naw, we can't do that," answered Andy.

"Why not?" declared Pete.

"Because the bag's away up in the top part of the shed, and I'm not
going to climb up there."

"You're afraid," sneered Sam.

"I am not! I'll punch your face if you say that again! Besides the
thing that holds the gas is made of aluminum, and we can't make a hole
in it unless we take an axe, and that makes too much noise."

"We ought to play some sort of a trick on Tom Swift," proposed Pete.
"He's too fresh!"

Tom shook his fist at the lads on the ground, but of course they did
not see him.

"I have it!" came from Andy.

"What?" demanded his two cronies.

"We'll cut some of the guy wires from the planes and rudders. That will
make the airship collapse. They'll think the wires broke from the
strain. Take out your knives and saw away at the wires. Hurry, too, or
they may catch us."

"You're caught now," whispered Ned to Tom. "Come on down, and give 'em
a trouncing."

Tom hesitated. He looked quickly about the loft, and then a smile
replaced the frown of righteous anger on his face.

"I have a better way," he said.

"What is it?"

"See that pile of dirt?" and he pointed to some refuse that had been
swept up from the floor of the loft. Ned nodded. "It consists of a lot
of shavings, sawdust and, what's more, a lot of soot and lampblack that
we used in mixing some paint. We'll sweep the whole pile down on their
heads, and make them wish they'd stayed away from this place."

"Good!" exclaimed Ned, chuckling. "Give me a broom. There's another one
for you."

The two lads in the loft peered down. The red-headed, squint-eyed bully
and his chums had their knives out, and were about to cut some of the
important guy wires, when, at a signal from Tom, Ned, with a sweep of
his broom, sent a big pile of the dirt, sawdust and lampblack down upon
the heads of the conspirators. The young inventor did the same thing,
and for an instant the lower part of the shed looked as if a dirtstorm
had taken place there. The pile of refuse went straight down on the
heads of the trio, and, as they were looking up, in order to see to cut
the wires, they received considerable of it in their faces.

In an instant the white countenances of the lads were changed to
black--as black as the burnt-cork performers in a minstrel show. Then
came a series of howls.

"Wow! Who did that!"

"I'm blinded! The shed is falling down!"

"Run fellows, run!" screamed Andy. "There's been an explosion. We'll be
killed!"

At that moment the big doors of the shed were thrown open, and Mr.
Sharp came in. He started back in astonishment at the sight of the
three grotesque figures, their faces black with the soot, and their
clothes covered with sawdust and shavings, rushing wildly around.

"That will teach you to come meddling around here. Andy Foger!" cried
Tom.

"I--I--you--you--Oh, wait--I--you--" spluttered the bully, almost
speechless with rage. Sam and Pete were wildly trying to wipe the stuff
from their faces, but only made matters worse. They were so startled
that they did not know enough to run out of the opened doors.

"Wish we had some more stuff to put on 'em," remarked Ned, who was
holding his sides that ached from laughter.

"I have it!" cried Tom, and he caught up a bucket of red paint, that
had been used to give the airship its brilliant hue. Running to the end
of the loft Tom stood for an instant over the trio of lads who were
threatening and imploring by 'turns.

"Here's another souvenir of your visit," shouted the young inventor, as
he dashed the bucket of red paint down on the conspirators. This
completed the work of the dirt and soot, and a few seconds later, each
face looking like a stage Indian's ready for the war-path, the trio
dashed out. They shed shavings, sawdust and lampblack at every step,
and from their clothes and hands and faces dripped the carmine paint.

"Better have your pictures taken!" cried Ned, peering from an upper
window.

"Yes, and send us one," added Tom, joining his chum. Andy looked up at
them. He dug a mass of red paint from his left ear, removed a mass of
soot from his right cheek, and, shaking his fist, which was alternately
striped red and black, cried out in a rage:

"I'll get even with you yet, Tom Swift!"

"You only got what was coming to you," retorted the young inventor.
"The next time you come sneaking around this airship, trying to damage
it, you'll get worse, and I'll have you arrested. You've had your
lesson, and don't forget it."

The red-haired bully, doubly red-haired now, had nothing more to say.
There was nothing he could say, and, accompanied by his companions, he
made a bee-line for the rear gate in the fence, and darted across the
meadow. They were all sorry enough looking specimens, but solely
through their own fault.




Chapter 8

Winning a Prize


"Well, Tom, what happened?" asked Mr. Sharp, as he saw the trio running
away. "Looks as if you had had an exciting time here."

"No, those fellows had all the excitement," declared Ned. "We had the
fun." And the two lads proceeded to relate what had taken place.

"Tried to damage the airship, eh?" asked Mr. Sharp. "I wish I'd caught
them at it; the scoundrels! But perhaps you handled them as well as I
could have done."

"I guess so," assented Tom. "I must see if they did cut any of the
wires."

But the young inventor and his chum had acted too quickly, and it was
found that nothing had been done to the Red Cloud.

A little later the airship was taken out of the shed, and made ready
for a trip. The gas ascension was first used, and Ned and Mr. Swift
were passengers with Tom and Mr. Sharp. The machine went about a
thousand feet up in the air, and then was sent in various directions,
to the no small delight of a large crowd that gathered in the meadow
back of the Swift property; for it only required the sight of the
airship looming its bulk above the fence and buildings, to attract a
throng. It is safe to say this time, however, that Andy Foger and his
cronies were not in the audience. They were probably too busy removing
the soot and red paint.

Although it was the first time Mr. Swift had ever been in an airship,
he evinced no great astonishment. In fact he seemed to be thinking
deeply, and on some subject not connected with aeronautics. Tom noticed
the abstraction of his father, and shook his head. Clearly the aged
inventor was not his usual self.

As for Ned Newton his delight knew no bounds, At first he was a bit
apprehensive as the big ship went higher and higher, and swung about,
but he soon lost his fear, and enjoyed the experience as much as did
Tom. The young inventor was busy helping Mr. Sharp manage the
machinery, rudders-planes and motor.

A flight of several miles was made, and Tom was wishing they might pay
another visit to the Rocksmond Seminary, but Mr. Sharp, after
completing several evolutions, designed to test the steering qualities
of the craft, put back home.

"We'll land in the meadow and try rising by the planes alone," he said.
In this evolution it was deemed best for Mr. Swift and Ned to alight,
as there was no telling just how the craft would behave. Tom's father
was very willing to get out, but Ned would have remained in, only for
the desire of his friend.

With the two propellers whirring at a tremendous speed, and all the gas
out of the aluminum container, the Red Cloud shot forward, running over
the level ground of the meadow, where a starting course had been laid
out.

"Clear the track!" cried Mr. Sharp, as he saw the crowd closing up in
front of him. The men, boys, several girls and women made a living
lane. Through this shot the craft, and then, when sufficient momentum
had been obtained, Tom, at a command from the aeronaut, pulled the
lever of the elevation rudder. Up into the air shot the nose of the Red
Cloud as the wind struck the slanting surface of the planes, and, a
moment later it was sailing high above the heads of the throng.

"That's the stuff!" cried Mr. Sharp. "It works as well that way as it
does with the gas!"

Higher and higher it went, and then, coming to a level keel, the craft
was sent here and there, darting about like a bird, and going about in
huge circles.

"Start the gas machine, and we'll come to rest in the air," said the
balloonist, and Tom did so. As the powerful vapor filled the container
the ship acquired a buoyancy, and there was no need of going at high
speed in order to sustain it. The propellers were stopped, and the Red
Cloud floated two thousand feet in the air, only a little distance
below some fleecy, white masses from which she took her name. The
demonstration was a great success. The gas was again allowed to escape,
the propellers set in motion, and purely as an aeroplane, the ship was
again sent forward. By means of the planes and rudders a perfect
landing was made in the meadow, a short distance from where the start
had been made. The crowd cheered the plucky youth and Mr. Sharp.

"Now I'm ready to go on a long trip any time you are, Tom," said the
aeronaut that night.

"We'll fit up the car and get ready," agreed the 'youth. "How about
you, dad?"

"Me? Oh, well--er--that is, you see; well, I'll think about it," and
Mr. Swift went to his own room, carrying with him a package of papers,
containing intricate calculations.

Tom shook his head, but said nothing. He could not understand his
father's conduct.

Work was started the next day on fitting up the car, or cabin, of the
airship, so that several persons could live, eat and sleep in it for
two weeks, if necessary. The third day after this task had been
commenced the mail brought an unusual communication to Tom and Mr.
Sharp. It was from an aero club of Blakeville, a city distant about a
hundred miles, and stated that a competition for aeroplanes and
dirigible balloons was to be held in the course of two weeks. The
affair was designed to further interest in the sport, and also to
demonstrate what progress had been made in the art of conquering the
air. Prizes were to be given, and the inventors of the Red Cloud, the
achievements of which the committee of arrangements had heard, were
invited to compete.

"Shall we go in for it, Tom?" asked the balloonist.

"I'm willing if you are."

"Then let's do it. We'll see how our craft shows up alongside of
others. I know something of this club. It is all right, but the
carnival is likely to be a small one. Once I gave a balloon exhibition
for them. The managers are all right. Well, we'll have a try at it.
Won't do us any harm to win a prize. Then for a long trip!"

As it was not necessary to have the car, or cabin, completely fitted up
in order to compete for the prize, work in that direction was suspended
for the time being, and more attention was paid to the engine, the
planes and rudders. Some changes were made and, a week later the Red
Cloud departed for Blakeville. As the rules of the contest required
three passengers, Ned Newton was taken along, Mr. Swift having arranged
with the bank president so that the lad could have a few days off.

The Red Cloud arrived at the carnival grounds in the evening, having
been delayed on the trip by a broken cog wheel, which was mended in
mid-air. As the three navigators approached, they saw a small machine
flying around the grounds.

"Look!" cried Ned excitedly. "What a small airship."

"That's a monoplane," declared Tom, who was getting to be quite an
expert.

"Yes, the same kind that was used to cross the English Channel,"
interjected Mr. Sharp. "They're too uncertain for my purposes, though;
they are all right under certain conditions."

Hardly had he spoken than a puff of wind caused the daring manipulator
of the monoplane to swerve to one side. He had to make a quick
descent--so rapid was it, in fact, that the tips of one of his planes
was smashed.

"It'll take him a day to repair that," commented the aeronaut dryly.

The Red Cloud created a sensation as she slowly settled down in front
of the big tent assigned to her. Tom's craft was easily the best one at
the carnival, so far, though the managers said other machines were on
the way.

The exhibition opened the next day, but no flights were to be attempted
until the day following. Two more crafts arrived, a large triplane, and
a dirigible balloon. There were many visitors to the ground, and Tom,
Ned and Mr. Sharp were kept busy answering questions put by those who
crowded into their tent. Toward the close of the day a fussy little
Frenchman entered, and, making his way to where Tom stood, asked:

"Air you ze ownair of zis machine?"

"One of them," replied the lad.

"Ha! Sacre! Zen I challenge you to a race. I have a monoplane zat is ze
swiftest evaire! One thousand francs will I wager you, zat I can fly
higher and farther zan you."

"Shall we take him up, Mr. Sharp?" asked Tom.

"We'll race with him, after we get through with the club entries,"
decided the aeronaut. "But not for money. It's against my principles,
and I don't believe your father would like it. Racing for prizes is a
different thing."

"Well, we will devote ze money to charity," conceded the Frenchman.
This was a different matter, and one to which Mr. Sharp did not object,
so it was arranged that a trial should take place after the regular
affairs.

That night was spent in getting the Red Cloud in shape for the contests
of the next day. She was "groomed" until every wire was taut and every
cog, lever and valve working perfectly. Ned Newton helped all he could.
So much has appeared in the newspapers of the races at Blakeville that
I will not devote much space here to them. Suffice it to say that the
Red Cloud easily distanced the big dirigible from which much was
expected. It was a closer contest with the large triplane, but Tom's
airship won, and was given the prize, a fine silver cup.

As the carnival was a small one, no other craft in a class with the Red
Cloud had been entered, so Tom and Mr. Sharp had to be content with the
one race they won. There were other contests among monoplanes and
biplanes, and the little Frenchman won two races.

"Now for ze affaire wis ze monstaire balloon of ze rouge color!" he
cried, as he alighted from his monoplane while an assistant filled the
gasolene tank. "I will in circles go around you, up and down, zis side
zen ze ozzer, and presto! I am back at ze starting place, before you
have begun. Zen charity shall be ze richair!"

"All right, wait and see," said Tom, easily. But, though he showed much
confidence he asked Mr. Sharp in private, just before the impromptu
contest: "Do you think we can beat him?"

"Well," said the aeronaut, shrugging his shoulders, "you can't tell
much about the air. His machine certainly goes very fast, but too much
wind will be the undoing of him, while it will only help us. And I
think," he added, "that we're going to get a breeze."

It was arranged that the Red Cloud would start from the ground, without
the use of the gas, so as to make the machines more even. At the signal
off they started, the motors making a great racket. The monoplane with
the little Frenchman in the seat got up first.

"Ah, ha!" he cried gaily, "I leave you in ze rear! Catch me if you can!"

"Don't let him beat us," implored Ned.

"Can't you speed her up any more?" inquired Tom of Mr. Sharp.

The aeronaut nodded grimly, and turned more gasolene into the
twenty-cylindered engine. Like a flash the Red Cloud darted forward.
But the Frenchman also increased his speed and did, actually, at first,
circle around the bigger machine, for his affair was much lighter. But
when he tried to repeat that feat he found that he was being left
behind.

"That's the stuff! We're winning!" yelled Tom, Ned joining in the shout.

Then came a puff of wind. The monoplane had to descend, for it was in
danger of turning turtle. Still the navigator was not going to give up.
He flew along at a lower level. Then Mr. Sharp opened up the Red
Cloud's engine at full speed, and it was the big machine which now
sailed around the other.

"I protest! I protest!" cried the Frenchman, above the explosions of
his motor. "Ze wind is too strong for me!"

Mr. Sharp said nothing, but, with a queer smile on his face he sent the
airship down toward the earth. A moment later he was directly under the
monoplane. Then, quickly rising, he fairly caught the Frenchman's
machine on top of a square platform of the gas container, the bicycle
wheels of the monoplane resting on the flat surface. And, so swiftly
did the Red Cloud fly along that it carried the monoplane with it, to
the chagrin of the French navigator.

"A trick! A trick!" he cried. "Eet is not fair!"

Then, dropping down, Mr. Sharp allowed the monoplane to proceed under
its own power, while he raced on to the finish mark, winning, of
course, by a large margin.

"Ha! A trick! I race you to-morrow and again to-morrow!" cried the
beaten Frenchman as he alighted.

"No, thanks," answered Tom. "We've had enough. I guess charity will be
satisfied."

The little Frenchman was a good loser, and paid over the money, which
was given to the Blakeville Hospital, the institution receiving it
gladly.

At the request of the carnival committee, Mr. Sharp and Tom gave an
exhibition of high and long flights the next day, and created no little
astonishment by their daring feats.

"Well, I think we have reason to be proud of our ship," remarked Mr.
Sharp that night. "We won the first contest we were ever in, and beat
that speedy monoplane, which was no small thing to do, as they are very
fast."

"But wait until we go on our trip," added Tom, as he looked at the cup
they had won. He little realized what danger they were to meet with in
the flight that was before them.




Chapter 9

The Runaway Auto


Had the inventors of the Red Cloud desired, they could have made
considerable money by giving further exhibitions at the Blakeville Aero
Carnival, and at others which were to be held in the near future at
adjoining cities. The fame of the new machine had spread, and there
were many invitations to compete for prizes.

But Tom and Mr. Sharp wished to try their skill in a long flight, and
at the close of the Blakeville exhibition they started for Shopton,
arriving there without mishap, though Tom more than half hoped that
they might happen to strike the tower of a certain school. I needn't
specify where.

The first thing to be done was to complete the fitting-up of the car,
or cabin. No berths had, as yet, been put in, and these were first
installed after the Red Cloud was in her shed. Then an electrical
heating and cooking apparatus was fitted in; some additional machinery,
tanks for carrying water, and chemicals for making the gas, boxes of
provisions, various measuring instruments and other supplies were put
in the proper places, until the cabin was filled almost to its
capacity. Of course particular attention had been paid to the ship
proper, and every portion was gone over until Mr. Sharp was sure it was
in shape for a long flight.

"Now the question is," he said to Tom one evening, "who shall we take
with us? You and I will go, of course, but I'd like one more. I wonder
if your father can't be induced to accompany us? He seemed to like the
trial trip."

"I'll ask him to-morrow," said the lad. "He's very busy to-night. If he
doesn't care about it, maybe Garret Jackson will go."

"I'm afraid not. He's too timid."

"I'd like to take Ned Newton, but he can't get any more time away from
the bank. I guess we'll have to depend on dad."

But, to the surprise of Tom and Mr. Sharp, the aged inventor shook his
head when the subject was broached to him next day.

"Why won't you go, dad?" asked his son.

"I'll tell you," replied Mr. Swift. "I was keeping it a secret until I
had made some advance in what I am engaged upon. But I don't want to go
because I am on the verge of perfecting a new apparatus for submarine
boats. It will revolutionize travel under the water, and I don't want
to leave home until I finish it. There is another point to be
considered. The government has offered a prize for an under-water boat
of a new type, and I wish to try for it."

"So that's what you've been working on, eh, dad?" asked his son.

"That's it, and, much as I should like to accompany you, I don't feel
free to go. My mind would be distracted, and I need to concentrate
myself on this invention. It will produce the most wonderful results,
I'm sure. Besides, the government prize is no small one. It is fifty
thousand dollars for a successful boat."

Mr. Swift told something more about his submarine, but, as I expect to
treat of that in another book, I will not dwell on it here, as I know
you are anxious to learn what happened on the trip of the Red Cloud.

"Well," remarked Mr. Sharp, somewhat dubiously, "I wonder who we can
get to go? We need someone besides you and I, Tom."

"I s'pose I could get Eradicate Sampson, and his mule Boomerang,"
replied the lad with a smile. "Yet I don't know--"

At that instant there was a tremendous racket outside. The loud puffing
of an automobile could be heard, but mingled with it was the crash of
wood, and then the whole house seemed jarred and shaken.

"Is it an earthquake?" exclaimed Mr. Swift, springing to his feet, and
rushing to the library windows.

"Something's happened!" cried Tom.

"Maybe an explosion of the airship gas!" yelled Mr. Sharp, making ready
to run to the balloon shed. But there was no need. The crashing of wood
ceased, and, above the puffing of an auto could be heard a voice
exclaiming:

"Bless my very existence! Bless my cats and dogs! Good gracious! But I
never meant to do this!"

Tom, his father and Mr. Sharp rushed to the long, low windows that
opened on the veranda. There, on the porch, which it had mounted by way
of the steps, tearing away part of the railing, was a large touring
car; and, sitting at the steering wheel, in a dazed sort of manner, was
Mr. Wakefield Damon.

"Bless my shirt studs!" he went on feebly. "But I have done it now!"

"What's the matter?" cried Tom, hastening up to him. "What happened?
Are you hurt?"

"Hurt? Not a bit of it! Bless my moonstone!  It's the most lucky escape
I ever had! But I've damaged your porch, and I haven't done my machine
any good. Do you see anything of another machine chasing me?"

Tom looked puzzled, but glanced up and down the road. Far down the
highway could be discerned a cloud of dust, and, from the midst of it
came a faint "chug-chug."

"Looks like an auto down there," he said.

"Thank goodness! Bless my trousers, but I've escaped 'em!" cried the
eccentric man from whom Tom had purchased his motor-cycle.

"Escaped who?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Those men. They were after me. But I may as well get out and explain.
Dear me! However will I ever get my car off your porch?" and Mr. Damon
seemed quite distressed.

"Never mind," answered Tom. "We can manage that. Tell us what happened."

"Exactly," replied Mr. Damon, growing calmer, "Bless my shoe buttons,
but I had a fright, two of them, in fact.

"You see," he went on, "I was out partly on pleasure and partly on
business. The pleasure consisted in riding in my auto, which my
physician recommended for my health. The business consisted in bringing
to the Shopton Bank a large amount of cash. Well, I deposited it all
right, but, as I came out I saw some men hanging around. I didn't like
their looks, and I saw them eyeing me rather sharply. I thought I had
seen them before and, sure enough I had. Two of the men belonged to
that Happy Harry gang!"

Tom made a quick motion of a caution, pointing to his father, but it
was not necessary, as Mr. Swift was absently-mindedly calculating on a
piece of paper he had taken from his pocket, and had not heard what Mr.
Damon said. The latter, however, knew what Tom meant, and went on.

"Well, I didn't like the looks of these men, and when I saw them sizing
me up, evidently thinking I had drawn money out instead of putting it
in, I decided to give them the slip. I got in my auto, but I was
startled to see them get in their car. I headed for here, as I was
coming to pay you a visit, anyhow, and the mysterious men kept after
me. It became a regular race. I put on all the speed I could and headed
for your house, Tom, for I thought you would help me. I went faster and
faster, and so did they. They were almost up to me, and I was just
thinking of slowing down to turn in here, when I lost control of my
machine, and--well, I did turn in here, but not exactly as I intended.
Bless my gaiters! I came in with rather more of a rush than I expected.
It was awful--positively awful, I assure you. You've no idea how
nervous I was. But I escaped those scoundrels, for they rushed on when
they saw what I had done--smashed the porch railing."

"Probably they thought you'd smash them," observed Tom with a laugh.
"But why did they follow you?"

"Can't imagine! Haven't the least idea. Bless my spark-plug, but they
might have imagined I had money. Anyhow I'm glad I escaped them!"

"It's lucky you weren't hurt," said Mr. Sharp.

"Oh, me? Bless my existence! I'm always having narrow escapes." Mr.
Damon caught sight of the Red Cloud which was out in front of the big
shed. "Bless my heart! What's that?" he added.

"Our new airship," answered Tom proudly. "We are just planning a long
trip in it, but we can't find a third member of the party to go along."

"A third member!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Do you really mean it?"

"We do."

"Bless my shoe laces! Will you take me along?"

"Do you mean that?" asked Tom in turn, foreseeing a way out of their
difficulties.

"I certainly do," answered the eccentric man. "I am much interested in
airships, and I might as well die up in the clouds as any other way.
Certainly I prefer it to being smashed up in an auto. Will you take me?"

"Of course!" cried Tom heartily, and Mr. Sharp nodded an assent. Then
Tom drew Mr. Damon to one side. "We'll arrange the trip in a few
minutes," the lad said. "Tell me more about those mysterious men,
please."




Chapter 10

A Bag of Tools


Wakefield Damon glanced at Mr. Swift. The inventor was oblivious to his
surroundings, and was busy figuring away on some paper. He seemed even
to have forgotten the presence of the eccentric autoist.

"I don't want father to hear about the men," went on Tom, in a low
tone. "If he hears that Happy Harry and his confederates are in this
vicinity, he'll worry, and that doesn't agree with him. But are you
sure the men you saw are the same ones who stole the turbine model?"

"Very certain," replied Mr. Damon. "I had a good view of them as I came
from the bank, and I was surprised to see them, until I remembered that
they were out of jail."

"But why do you think they pursued you?"

"Bless my eyes! I can't say. Perhaps they weren't after me at all. I
may have imagined it, but they certainly hurried off in their auto as
soon as I left the bank, after leaving my money there. I'm glad I
deposited it before I saw them. I was so nervous, as it was, that I
couldn't steer straight. It's too bad, the way I've damaged your house."

"That doesn't matter. But how about the trip in the airship? I hope you
meant it when you said you would go."

"Of course I did. I've never traveled in the air, but it can't be much
worse than my experience with my motor-cycle and the auto. At least I
can't run up any stoop, can I?" and Mr. Damon looked at Mr. Sharp.

"No," replied the aeronaut, as he scratched his head, "I guess you'll
be safe on that score. But I hope you won't get nervous when we reach a
great height."

"Oh, no. I'll just calm myself with the reflection that I can't die but
once," and with this philosophical reflection Mr. Damon went back to
look at the auto, which certainly looked odd, stuck up on the veranda.

"Well, you'd better make arrangements to go with us then," went on Tom.
"Meanwhile I'll see to getting your car down. You'll want to send it
home, I suppose?"

"No, not if you'll keep it for me. The fact is that all my folks are
away, and will be for some time. I don't have to go home to notify
them, and it's a good thing, as my wife is very nervous, and might
object, if she heard about the airship. I'll just stay here, if you've
no objection, until the Red Cloud sails, if sails is the proper term."

"'Sails' will do very well," answered Mr. Sharp. "But, Tom, let's see
if you and I can't get that car down. Perhaps Mr. Damon would like to
go in the house and talk to your father," for Mr. Swift had left the
piazza.

The eccentric individual was glad enough not to be on hand when his car
was eased down from the veranda and disappeared into the house.  Tom
and Mr. Sharp, with the aid of Garret Jackson, then released the auto
from its position. They had to take down the rest of the broken
railing, and their task was easy enough. The machine was stored in a
disused shed, and Mr. Damon had no further concern until it was time to
undertake the trip through the air.

"It will fool those men if I mysteriously disappear," he said, with a
smile. "Bless my hat band, but they'll wonder what became of me. We'll
just slip off in the Red Cloud, and they'll never be the wiser."

"I don't know about that," commented Tom. "I fancy they are keeping
pretty close watch in this vicinity, and I don't like it. I'm afraid
they are up to some mischief. I should think the bank authorities would
have them locked upon suspicion. I think I'll telephone Ned about it."

He did so, and his chum, in turn, notified the bank watchman. But the
next day it was reported that no sign of the men had been seen, and,
later it was learned that an auto, answering the description of the one
they were in, had been seen going south, many miles from Shopton.

The work of preparing the Red Cloud for the long trip was all but
completed. It had been placed back in the shed while a few more
adjustments were made to the machinery.

"Bless my eyelashes!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, a few days before the one
set for the start, "but I haven't asked where we are bound for. Where
are we going, anyhow, Mr. Sharp?"

"We're going to try and reach Atlanta, Georgia," replied the
balloonist. "That will make a fairly long trip, and the winds at this
season are favorable in that direction."

"That suits me all right," declared Mr. Damon. "I'm all ready and
anxious to start."

It was decided to give the airship a few more trials around Shopton
before setting out, to see how it behaved with the car heavier loaded
than usual. With this in view a trip was made to Rocksmond, with Mr.
Swift, Mr. Damon and Ned, in addition to Mr. Sharp and Tom, on board.
Then, at Tom's somewhat blushing request, a stop was made near the
Seminary, and, when the pupils came trooping out, the young inventor
asked Miss Nestor if she didn't want to take a little flight. She
consented, and with two pretty companions climbed rather hesitatingly
into the car. No great height was attained, but the girls were fully
satisfied and, after their first alarm really enjoyed the spin in the
air, with Tom proudly presiding at the steering wheel, which Mr. Sharp
relinquished to the lad, for he understood Tom's feelings.

Three days later all was in readiness for the trip to Atlanta. Mr.
Swift was earnestly invited to undertake it, both Tom and Mr. Sharp
urging him, but the veteran inventor said he must stay at home, and
work on his submarine plans.

The evening before the start, when the aeronaut and Tom were giving a
final inspection to the craft in the big shed, Mr. Sharp exclaimed "I
declare Tom, I believe you'll have to take a run into town."

"What for?"

"Why to get that kit of special tools I ordered, which we might need to
make repairs. There are some long-handled wrenches, some spare levers,
and a couple of braces and bits. Harrison, the hardware dealer, ordered
them for me from New York, and they were to be ready this afternoon,
but I forgot them. Take an empty valise with you, and you can carry
them on your motorcycle. I'm sorry to have forgotten it, but--"

"That's all right, Mr. Sharp, I'd just as soon go as not. It will make
the time pass more quickly. I'll start right off."

An hour later, having received the tools, which made quite a bundle,
the lad put them in the valise, and started back toward home. As he
swung around the corner on which the bank was located--the same bank in
which Ned Newton worked--one of the valves on the motor-cycle began to
leak. Tom dismounted to adjust it, and had completed the work, being
about to ride on, when down the street came Andy Foger and Sam
Snedecker. They started at the sight of our hero.

"There he is now!" exclaimed Sam, as if he and the red-haired bully had
been speaking of the young inventor.

"Let's lick him!" proposed Andy. "Now's our chance to get even for
throwing that paint and soot on us."

Tom heard their words. He was not afraid of both the lads, for, though
each one matched him in size and strength, Tom knew they were cowards.

"If you're looking for anything I guess I can accommodate you," he
said, coolly.

"Come on, Andy," urged Sam. But, somehow Andy hung back. Perhaps he
didn't like the way Tom squared off. The young inventor had let down
the rear brace of his motor-cycle, and was not obliged to hold it, so
he had both hands free.

"We ought to lick him good and proper," growled the squint-eyed lad.

"Well, why don't you?" invited Tom.

He moved to one side, so as not to be hampered by his wheel. As he did
so he knocked from the handle bars the valise of tools. They fell with
a clatter and a thud to the pavement, and the satchel came open. It was
under a gas lamp, and the glitter of the long-handled wrenches and
other implements caught the eyes of Andy and his crony.

"Huh! If we fought you, maybe you'd use some of them on us," sneered
Andy, glad of an excuse not to fight.

Tom quickly picked up his valise, shutting it, but he was aware of the
close scrutiny of the two vindictive lads.

"I don't fight with such things," he said, somewhat annoyed, and he
hung the tools back on the handle bars.

"What you doing around the bank at this hour?" asked Sam, as if to
change the subject. "First thing you know the watchman will order you
to move on. He might think you were a suspicious character."

"The same to you," retorted Tom, "but I'm going to ride on now, unless
you want to have a further argument with me."

"You'd better be careful how you hang around a bank," added Andy. "The
police are on the lookout here. There's been some mysterious men seen
about."

Tom did not care to go into that, and, seeing that the two bullies had
lost all desire to attack him, he put up the brace and mounted his
wheel.

"Good-by," he called to Andy and Sam, as he rode off, the tools
rattling and jingling in the valise, but it was a sarcastic farewell,
and the two cronies did not reply.

"I hope I didn't damage any of the tools when I let them fall that
time," mused the young inventor. "My, the way Sam and Andy stared at
them it would make it seem as if I had a lot of weapons in the bag!
They certainly took good note of them."

The time was to come, and very shortly, when Andy's and Sam's
observation of the tools was to prove disastrous for our hero. As Tom
turned the corner he looked back, and saw, still standing in front of
the bank, the two cronies.




Chapter 11

The Red Cloud Departs


"Well, dad, I wish you were going along with us," said Tom to his
father next morning. "You don't know what you're going to miss. A fine
trip of several hundred miles through the air, seeing strange sights,
and experiencing new sensations."

"Yes, I wish you would reconsider your determination, and accompany
us," added Mr. Damon. "I would enjoy your company."

"There's plenty of room. We can carry six persons with ease," said Mr.
Sharp.

Mr. Swift shook his head, and smiled.

"I have too much work to do here at home," he replied. "Perhaps I may
astonish you with something when you come back. I have nearly perfected
my latest invention."

There was no combating such a resolution as this, and Tom and the
others considered the decision of the aged inventor as final. The
airship was ready for the start, and every one had arisen earlier than
usual on this account. The bag of tools, for which Tom had gone to
town, were put in their proper place, the last of the supplies were
taken abroad, final tests were made of the various apparatus, the motor
had been given a trial spin, disconnected from the propellers, and then
the balloonist announced:

"Well, Tom and Mr. Damon, you had better begin to think of starting.
We've had breakfast here, but there's no telling where we will eat
dinner."

"Bless my soul! Don't you talk that way!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "You
make me exceedingly nervous. Why shouldn't we know where we are going
to eat dinner?"

"Oh, I meant we couldn't tell over just what part of the United States
we would be when dinner time came," explained the aeronaut.

"Oh, that's different. Bless my pocket knife, but I thought you meant
we might be dashed to pieces, and incapable of eating any dinner."

"Hardly," remarked Mr. Sharp. "The Red Cloud is not that kind of an
airship, I hope. But get aboard, if you please."

Tom and Mr. Damon entered the car. It was resting on the ground, on the
small wheels used to start the airship when the gas inflation method
was not used. In this case, however, it had been decided to rise in the
air by means of the powerful vapor, and not to use the wings and planes
until another time. Consequently the ship was swaying slightly, and
tugging at the restraining cables.

As Tom and Mr. Damon entered the cabin there drove into the Swift yard
a dilapidated wagon, drawn by a bony mule, and it did not need the
addition of a colored man's voice, calling: "Whoa, dar, Boomerang!" to
tell Tom that his friend Eradicate Sampson was on hand. As for
Eradicate, as soon as he saw the great airship, which he had never
before beheld fully rigged, all ready for a flight, his eyes became big
with wonder.

"Is dat yo' flyin' machine, Mistah Swift?" he asked.

"That's it, Rad," answered Tom. "Don't you want to come and take a ride
with us?"

"Me? Good land a' massy! No indeedy, Mistah Swift," and the
whitewasher, who had descended from his wagon, edged away, as if the
airship might suddenly put out a pair of hands and grab him. "No
indeedy I doant! I come t' do a little whitewashin' an' when I do dat
I'se gwine on mah way. But dat's a pow'ful fine ship; it suah am!"

"Better come and try a flight, Rad," added Mr. Damon. "I'll look after
you."

"No, sah, an' I doan't take it kind ob yo' all t' tempt me dat way,
nuther," spoke Eradicate. But, when he saw that the craft was
stationary, he ventured to approach closer. Gingerly he put out one
hand and touched the framework of the wheels, just forward of the
cabin. The negro grasped the timber, and lifted it slightly. To his
astonishment the whole front of the airship tilted up, for it was about
ready to fly, and a child might have lifted it, so buoyant was it. But
Eradicate did not know this. Wonderingly he looked at the great bulk of
the ship, looming above him, then he glanced at his arm.  Once more,
noting that the attention of his friends was elsewhere, he lifted the
craft. Then he cried "Look yeah, Mistah Swift! Look yeah!  No wonder
day calls me Sampson. I done lifted dis monstrousness airship wif one
hand, See, I kin do it! I kin do it!"

Once more he raised the Red Cloud slightly, and a delighted grin, not
unmixed with a look of awe, spread over his honest countenance.

"I suppose you'll give up whitewashing and join a circus as a strong
man, now," observed Mr. Sharp, with a wink at his companions.

"Days what I will!" announced Eradicate proudly. "I neber knowed I was
dat strong, but ob course I allers knowed I had some muscle. Golly, I
must hab growed strong ober night! Now, Boomerang, yo' suah has got t'
look out fo' yo' sef. No mo' ob yo' cuttin' up capers, or I'll jest
lift you up, an' sot yo' down on yo' back, I suah will," and the negro
feeling of his biceps walked over to where the mule stood, with its
eyes closed.

"I guess you can cast off, Tom," called Mr. Sharp, as he entered the
car, having seen that everything was all right. "We'll not go up very
far at first, until Mr. Damon gets used to the thin air."

"Bless my soul, I believe I'm getting nervous," announced the eccentric
man. "Bless my liver, but I hope nothing happens."

"Nothing will happen," Mr. Sharp assured him. "Just keep calm, when it
feels as if the bottom was dropping out of everything and you'll soon
get over it. Are you casting off those ropes, Tom? Is all clear?"

"All but the bow and stern lines."

"You attend to the bow line, and I'll go to the stern," and, going over
to the gas generator, Mr. Sharp started it so as to force more vapor
into the red aluminum container. This had the effect of rendering the
airship more buoyant, and it tugged and strained harder than ever at
the ropes.

"Good-by, Tom," called Mr. Swift, reaching up to shake hands with his
son. "Drop me a line when you get a chance."

"Oh, Tom, do be careful," implored Mrs. Baggert, her kind face showing
her anxiety. "May I kiss you good-by?"

"Of course," answered the young inventor, though the motherly
housekeeper had not done this since he was a little chap. She had to
stand on a soap box, which Eradicate brought in order to reach Tom's
face, and, when she had kissed him she said:

"Oh, I'm so worried! I just know you'll be killed, risking your lives
in that terrible airship!"

"Ha! Not a very cheerful view to take, madam," observed Mr. Damon.
"Don't hold that view, I beg of you. Bless my eyelashes, but you'll see
us coming home, covered with glory and star dust."

"I'm sure I hope so," answered Mrs. Baggert, laughing a little in spite
of herself.

The last ropes were cast off. Good-bys were shouted as the airship shot
into the air, and Mr. Sharp started the motor, to warm it up before the
propellers were thrown into gear. The twenty cylinders began exploding
with a terrific racket, as the muffler was open, and Tom, looking down,
saw Boomerang awaken with a jump. The mule was so frightened that he
started off on a dead run, swinging the rickety, old wagon along behind
him.

Eradicate Sampson, who had been feeling his muscle since he discovered
what he thought was his marvelous strength, saw what was happening.

"Whoa, dar, Boomerang!" he shouted. Then, as the tailboard of the wagon
swung past him, he reached out and grabbed it. Perhaps he thought he
could bring the runaway mule up standing, but, if he did, he was
grievously disappointed. Boomerang pulled his master along the gravel
walk, and kept running in spite of Eradicate's command to "whoa, dar!"

It might have gone hard with him, had not Garret Jackson, the engineer,
running in front of Boomerang, caught the animal. Eradicate picked
himself up, and gazed sadly at his arms. The navigators of the air
could not hear what he said, but what he thought was evident to them.

Then, as Mr. Sharp deadened the explosions of the powerful motor. Tom,
looking at a gauge, noted that their height was seven hundred feet.
"High enough!" called Mr. Sharp, and it was time, for Mr. Damon, in
spite of his resolution, was getting pale.

The gas was shut off, the propellers thrown into gear, and, with a rush
the Red Cloud shot toward the south, passing over the Swift homestead,
and high above the heads of the crowd that had gathered to witness the
start. The eventful voyage of the air had begun.




Chapter 12

Some Startling News


"Well, there they go," remarked Mrs. Baggert to Mr. Swift, as she
strained her eyes toward the sky, against the blue of which the airship
was now only a large, black ball.

"Yes, and a fine start they made," replied the inventor. "I almost wish
I had accompanied them, but I must not stop work on my submarine
invention."

"I do hope nothing will happen to them," went on the housekeeper. "I
declare, though, I feel just as if something was going to happen."

"Nervousness, pure nervousness," commented Mr. Swift. "Better take a
little--er--I suppose catnip tea would be good."

"Catnip tea! The very idea!" exclaimed Mrs. Baggert. "That shows how
much you know about nervousness, Mr. Swift," and she seemed a little
indignant.

"Ha! Hum! Well, maybe catnip tea wouldn't be just the thing. But don't
worry about Tom. I'm sure he can look after himself. As for Mr. Sharp
he has made too many ascensions to run into any unnecessary danger."

"Nervous!" went on the housekeeper, who seemed to resent this state
being applied to her. "I'm sure I'm not half as nervous as that Mr.
Damon. He gives me the fidgets."

"Of course. Well, I must get back to my work," said the inventor. "Ah,
are you hurt, Eradicate?" he went on, as the colored man came back,
driving Boomerang, who had been stopped just before reaching the road.

"No, Mistah Swift, I ain't exactly damaged, but mah feelin's am suah
hurted."

"How's that?"

"Well, I thought I had growed strong in de night, when I lifted dat
airship, but when I went to stop mah mule I couldn't do it. He won't
hab no respect fo' me now."

"Oh, I wouldn't let that worry me," commented Mr. Swift, and he
explained to Eradicate how it was that he had so easily lifted the end
of the buoyant ship, which weighed very little when filled with gas.

The colored man proceeded with his work of whitewashing, the inventor
was in his library, puzzling over tables of intricate figures, and Mrs.
Baggert was in the kitchen, sighing occasionally as she thought of Tom,
whom she loved almost as a son, high in the air, when two men came up
the walk, from the street, and knocked at the side door. Mrs. Baggert,
who answered the summons, was somewhat surprised to see Chief of Police
Simonson and Constable Higby.

"They probably came to see the airship start," she thought, "but
they're too late."

"Ah, good morning, Mrs. Baggert," greeted the chief. "Is Mr. Swift and
his son about this morning?"

"Mr. Swift is in his library, but Tom is gone."

"He'll be back though, won't he?" asked Constable Higby
quickly--anxiously, Mrs. Baggert thought.

"Oh, yes," she replied. "He and--"

"Just take us to see Mr. Swift," interrupted the chief, with a look of
caution at his aide. "We'll explain matters to him."

Wondering what could be the mission of the two officers, Mrs. Baggert
led them to the library.

"It's queer," she thought, "that they don't ask something about the
airship. I suppose that was what they came for. But maybe it's about
the mysterious men who robbed Mr. Swift."

"Ah, gentlemen, what can I do for you?" asked the inventor, as he rose
to greet the officials.

"Ahem, Mr. Swift. Ahem--er--that is--well, the fact is, Mr. Swift,"
stammered the chief, "we have come upon a very painful errand."

"What's that?" cried Tom's father. "I haven't been robbed again, have
I?'

"There has been a robbery committed," spoke the constable quickly.

"But you are not the victim," interposed the chief.

"I'm glad of that," said Mr. Swift.

"Where is your son, Tom?" asked the head of the Shopton police force,
sharply.

"What do you want with him?" inquired the inventor, struck by some
strange tone in the other's voice.

"Mr. Swift," went on the chief, solemnly, "I said we came upon a very
painful errand. It is painful, as I have known Tom since he was a
little lad. But I must do my duty, no matter how painful it is. I have
a warrant for the arrest of your son, Thomas Swift, and I have come to
serve it. I need not tell you that it is your duty to give him up to
us--the representatives of the law. I call upon you to produce your
son."

Mr. Swift staggered to his feet.

"My son! You have come to arrest my son?" he stammered.

The chief nodded grimly.

"Upon what charge?" faltered the father.

"On a charge of breaking into the Shopton National Bank last night, and
stealing from the vault seventy-five thousand dollars in currency!"

"Seventy-five thousand dollars! Tom accused of robbing the bank!"
faltered Mr. Swift.

"That is the charge, and we've come to arrest him," broke in Constable
Higby.

"Where is he?" added the chief.

"This charge is false! Absolutely false!" shouted the aged inventor.

"That may be," admitted the chief shaking his head. "But the charge has
been made, and we hold the warrant. The courts will settle it. We must
now arrest Tom. Where is he?"

"He isn't here!" cried Mr. Swift, and small blame to him if there was a
note of triumph in his voice. "Tom sailed away not half an hour ago in
the airship Red Cloud! You can't arrest him!"

"He's escaped!" shouted the constable. "I told you, chief, that he was
a slippery customer, and that we'd better come before breakfast!"

"Dry up!" commanded the chief testily. "So he's foiled us, eh? Run away
when he knew we were coming? I think that looks like guilt, Mr. Swift."

"Never!" cried the inventor. "Tom would never think of robbing the
bank. Besides, he has all the money he wants. The charge is
preposterous! I demand to be confronted with the proof."

"You shall be," answered Chief Simonson vindictively. "If you will come
to the bank you can see the rifled vault, and hear the testimony of a
witness who saw your son with burglar tools in his possession last
night. We also have a warrant for Mr. Wakefield Damon. Do you know
anything of him?"

"He has gone with my son in the airship."

"Ha! The two criminals with their booty have escaped together!" cried
the chief. "But we'll nab them if we have to scour the whole country.
Come on, Higby! Mr. Swift, if you'll accompany me to the bank, I think
I can give you all the proof you want," and the officials, followed by
the amazed and grief-stricken inventor, left the house.




Chapter 13

Mr. Damon In Danger


The sensations of the voyagers in the airship, who meanwhile, were
flying along over the country surrounding Shopton, were not very
different than when they had undertaken some trial flights. In fact Mr.
Damon was a little disappointed after they had waved their farewells to
Mr. Swift and Mrs. Baggert.

"I declare I'm not at all nervous," he remarked, as he sat in an easy
chair in the enclosed car or cabin, and looked down at the earth
through the plate-glass windows in the floor.

"I thought you'd be all right once we got started," commented Mr.
Sharp. "Do you think you can stand going a trifle higher?"

"Try it," suggested the eccentric man. "Bless my watch chain, but, as I
said, I might as well die this way as any other. Hitting a cloud-bank
is easier than trying to climb a tree on a motorcycle, eh, Tom?"

"Very much so, Mr. Damon," conceded the young inventor, with a laugh.

"Oh, we'll not attempt any cloud heights for a day or two," went on Mr.
Sharp. "I want you, to gradually get used to the rarefied atmosphere,
Mr. Damon. Tom and I are getting to be old hands at it.  But, if you
think you can stand it, I'll go up about a thousand feet higher."

"Make it two thousand, while you're at it," proposed the odd character.
"Might as well take a long fall as a short one."

Accordingly, the elevation rudder was used to send the Red Cloud to a
greater height while she was still skimming along like some great bird.
Of course the desired elevation could have been obtained by forcing
more gas from the machine into the big, red container overhead, but it
was decided to be as sparing of this vapor as possible, since the
voyagers did not want to descend to get more material, in case they
used up what they had. It was just as easy to rise by properly working
the rudders, when the ship was in motion, and that was the method now
employed.

With the great propellers, fore and aft, making about a thousand
revolutions a minute the craft slanted up toward the sky.

The ship was not being run at top speed as Mr. Sharp did not care to
force it, and there was no need for haste. Long distance, rather than
high speed was being aimed at on this first important flight.

Tom was at the steering wheel, and, with his hand on the lever
controlling the elevation rudder, kept watch of the face of Mr. Damon,
occasionally noting what height the hand on the gauge registered. He
fancied he saw the cheeks of his friend growing pale, and, when a
height of thirty-five hundred feet was indicated, with a yank the young
inventor put the airship on a level keel.

"Are you distressed, Mr. Damon?" he asked.

"Ye--yes, I--I have--some--some difficulty in breathing," was the
answer.

Tom gave his friend the same advice the aeronaut had given the lad on
his first trip, and the eccentric man soon felt better.

"Bless my buttons!" he ventured to explain. "But I feel as if I had
lost several pounds of flesh, and I'm glad of it."

Mr. Sharp was busy with the motor, which needed some slight
adjustments, and Tom was in sole charge of navigating the airship. He
had lost the nervous feeling that first possessed him, and was becoming
quite an expert at meeting various currents of wind encountered in the
upper regions.

Below, the voyagers could see the earth spread out like a great map.
They could not tell their exact location now, but by calculating their
speed, which was about thirty miles an hour, Tom figured out that they
were above the town of Centreford, near where he had been attacked once
by the model thieves.

For several hours the airship kept on her way, maintaining a height of
about a mile, for when it was found that Mr. Damon could accommodate
himself to thirty-five hundred feet the elevation rudder was again
shifted to send the craft upward.

By using glasses the travelers could see crowds on the earth watching
their progress in the air, and, though airships, dirigible balloons and
aeroplanes are getting fairly common now, the appearance of one as
novel and as large as the Red Cloud could always be depended upon to
attract attention.

"Well, what do you say to something to eat?" proposed Mr. Sharp, coming
into the main cabin, from the motor compartment. "It's twelve o'clock,
though we can't hear the factory whistles up, here."

"I'm ready, any time you are," called Tom, from the pilot house.
"Shall I cook grub, Mr. Sharp?"

"No, you manage the ship, and I'll play cook. We'll not get a very
elaborate meal this time, as I shall have to pay occasional visits to
the motor, which isn't running just to suit me."

The electrical stove was set going, and some soup and beefsteak from
among the stores, was put on the fire. In spite of the fact that the
day was a warm one in October, it was quite cool in the cabin, until
the stove took off the chill. The temperature of the upper regions was
several degrees below that of the earth. At times the ship passed
through little wisps of vapor-clouds in the making.

"Isn't this wonderful!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, as he sat in an easy
chair, partaking of some of the food. "To think that I have lived to
see the day when I can take my lunch a mile in the air, with a craft
flying along like a bird. Bless my knife and fork but it certainly is
wonderful."

Mr. Sharp relieved Tom at the wheel, while the young inventor ate, and
then, with the airship heading southwest, the speed was increased a
trifle, the balloonist desiring to see what the motor could accomplish
under a heavy load.

A drop of several hundred feet was made about an hour later, and, as
this made it warmer, Mr. Damon, who was a great lover of fresh air,
decided to go out on the platform in front of the cabin. This platform,
and a similar one at the rear, was railed about, to prevent accidents.
A fine view could be had from them much better than through the floor
windows of the car.

"Be careful of the propeller," advised Tom, as his friend went outside.
"I don't believe you're tall enough to be hit by the blades, but don't
take any chances of standing on your tiptoes."

"Bless my pocket handkerchief, indeed I'll not," came the answer. "But
I think I shall wrap up my throat in the scarf I brought along. I am
subject to neuralgia, and the breeze may bring on an attack of it."

Wrapping a long, woolen scarf about his neck, the eccentric man ventured
out on the open platform. About the middle of it, but sufficiently high
to be above a person's head, was the forward propeller, whirring around
at swift speed.

Tom, with his eye on the various gauges and the compass, was steering
the airship. He glanced at Mr. Damon, who appeared to be enjoying the
view from the platform. For an instant the eyes of the lad were taken
from the form of his friend. He looked back suddenly, however, his
attention attracted by a smothered cry. He was horrified by what he saw.

Mr. Damon was leaning far over the edge of the railing, with nothing
between him and the earth a thousand feet below. He seemed to have lost
his balance and had toppled forward, being doubled up on the iron pipe
railing, his hands hanging limply over. Then, as Tom cried to Mr. Sharp
to shut off the motor, the lad saw that, hanging to the blade of the
propeller, and being whirled around in its revolutions, was a part of
Mr. Damon's red scarf.

"Hurry! Hurry, Mr. Sharp!" yelled Tom, not daring to let go the
steering wheel, for fear the ship would encounter a treacherous current
and tilt. "Hurry to Mr. Damon!"

"What's the matter?" asked the balloonist.

"He's dead--or unconscious--hanging over the railing. He seems to be
slipping! Hurry, or it will be too late!"




Chapter 14

Andy Gives The Clue


When Mr. Swift followed the chief of police and the constable to the
town hall his mind was filled with many thoughts. All his plans for
revolutionizing submarine travel, were, of course, forgotten, and he
was only concerned with the charge that had been made against his son.
It seemed incredible, yet the officers were not ones to perpetrate a
joke. The chief and constable had driven from town in a carriage, and
they now invited the inventor to ride back with them.

"Do you mean to tell me a warrant has actually been sworn out against
my son, Chief?" asked the father, when they were near the town hall.

"That's just what I mean to say, Mr. Swift, and, I'm sorry, on your
account, that I have to serve it."

"Hub! Don't look like you was goin' to serve it," remarked the
constable. "He's skipped out."

"That's all right, Higby," went on the chief. "I'll catch em both.
Even if they have escaped in an airship with their booty, I'll nab 'em.
I'll have a general alarm out all over the country in less than an
hour. They can't stay up in the air forever."

"A warrant for Tom--my son," murmured Mr. Swift, as if he could not
believe it.

"Yes, and for that Damon man, too," added the chief. "I want him as
well as Tom, and I'll get 'em."

"Would you mind letting me see the warrants?" asked the inventor, and
the official passed them over. The documents were made out in regular
form, and the complaints had been sworn to by Isaac Pendergast, the
bank president.

"I can't understand it," went on Tom's father. "Seventy-five thousand
dollars. It's incredible! Why!" he suddenly exclaimed, "it can't be
true. Just before he left, Mr. Damon--"

"Yes, what did he do?" asked the chief eagerly, thinking he might
secure some valuable evidence.

"I guess I'll say nothing until I have seen the bank president,"
replied Mr. Swift, and the official was obviously disappointed.

The inventor found Mr. Pendergast, and some other bank officials in the
town hall. The financiers were rather angry when they learned that the
accused persons had not been caught, but the chief said he would soon
have them in custody.

"In the meanwhile will you kindly explain, what this means?" asked Mr.
Swift of the president.

"You may come and look at the looted vault, if you like, Mr. Swift,"
replied Mr. Pendergast. "It was a very thorough job, and will seriously
cripple the bank."

There was no doubt that the vault had been forced open, for the locks
and bars were bent and twisted as if by heavy tools. Mr. Swift made a
careful examination, and was shown the money drawers that had been
smashed.

"This was the work of experts," he declared.

"Exactly what we think," said the president. "Of course we don't
believe your son was a professional bank robber, Mr. Swift. We have a
theory that Mr. Damon did the real work, but that Tom helped him with
the tools he had. There is no doubt about it."

"What right have you to accuse my son?" burst out the aged inventor.
"Why have you any more cause to suspect him than any other lad in town?
Why do you fix on him, and Mr. Damon? I demand to know."

"Mr. Damon's eccentric actions for a few days past, and his well-known
oddity of character make him an object of suspicion," declared the
president in judicial tones. "As for Tom, we have, I regret to say,
even better evidence against him."

"But what is it? What? Who gave you any clues to point to my son?"

"Do you really wish to know?"

"I certainly do," was the sharp reply. Mr. Swift, the police and
several bank officials were now in the president's office. The latter
pressed an electric bell, and, when a messenger answered, he said:

"Send young Foger here."

At the mention of this name, Mr. Swift started. He well knew the
red-haired bully was an enemy of his son. Andy entered, walking rather
proudly at the attention he attracted.

"This is Mr. Swift," said the president.

"Aw, I know him," blurted out Andy.

"You will please tell him what you told us," went on Mr. Pendergast.

"Well, I seen Tom Swift hanging around this bank with burglar tools in
his possession last night, just before it was robbed," exclaimed the
squint-eyed lad triumphantly.

"Hanging around the bank last night with burglar tools?" repeated Mr.
Swift, in dazed tones.

"That's right," from Andy.

"How do you know they were burglar tools?"

"Because I saw 'em!" cried Andy. "He had 'em in a valise on his
motor-cycle. He was standing at the corner, waiting for a chance to
break into the bank, and when me and Sam Snedecker saw him, he
pretended to be fixin' his machine. Then the bag of burglar tools fell
off, the satchel came open, and I seen 'em! That's how I know."

"And you're sure they were burglar tools?" asked the chief, for he
depended on Andy to be his most important witness.

"Sure I am. I seen a picture of burglar tools once, and the ones Tom
had was just like 'em. Long-handled wrenches, brace an' bits, an' all.
He tried to hide 'em, but me an' Sam was too quick for him. He wanted
to lick me, too."

"No doubt you deserved it," murmured Mr. Swift. "But how do you know my
son was waiting for a chance to break into the bank?"

"'Cause, wasn't it robbed right after he was hangin' around here with
the burglar tools?" inquired Andy, as if that was unanswerable.

"What were you hanging around here for?" Mr. Swift demanded quickly.

"Me? Oh, well, me an' Sam Snedecker was out takin' a walk. That's all."

"You didn't want to rob the bank, did you?" went on the inventor,
keenly.

"Of course not," roared the bully, indignantly. "I ain't got no burglar
tools."

Andy told more along the same line, but his testimony of having seen
Tom near the bank, with a bag of odd tools could not be shaken. In fact
it was true, as far as it went, but, of course, the tools were only
those for the airship; the same ones Mr. Sharp had sent the lad after.
Sam Snedecker was called in after Andy, and told substantially the same
story.

Mr. Swift could not understand it, for he knew nothing of Tom being
sent for the tools, and had not heard any talk at home of the bag of
implements ordered by the balloonist. Still, of course, he knew Tom had
nothing to do with the robbery, and he knew his son had been at home
all the night previous. Still this was rather negative evidence.  But
the inventor had one question yet to ask.

"You say you also suspect Mr. Damon of complicity in this affair?" he
went on, to the chief of police.

"We sure do," replied Mr. Simonson.

"Then can you explain?" proceeded the inventor, "how it is that Mr.
Damon has on deposit in this bank a large sum. Would he rob the bank
where his own funds were?"

"We are prepared for that," declared the president. "It is true that
Mr. Damon has about ten thousand dollars in our bank, but we believe he
deposited it only as a blind, so as to cover up his tracks. It is a
deep-laid scheme, and escaping in the airship is part of it. I am
sorry, Mr. Swift, that I have to believe your son and his accomplice
guilty, but I am obliged to. Chief, you had better send out a general
alarm. The airship ought to be easy to trace."

"I'll telegraph at once," said the official.

"And you believe my son guilty, solely on the testimony of these two
boys, who, as is well known, are his enemies?" asked Mr. Swift.

"The clue they gave us is certainly most important," said the
president. "Andy came to us and told what he had seen, as soon as it
became known that the bank had been robbed."

"And I'm going to get the reward for giving information of the robbers,
too!" cried the bully.

"I'm going to have my share!" insisted Sam.

"Ah, then there is a reward offered?" inquired Mr. Swift.

"Five thousand dollars," answered Mr. Pendergast. "The directors, all
of whom are present save Mr. Foger, Andy's father, met early this
morning, and decided to offer that sum."

"And I'm going to get it," announced the red-haired lad again.

Mr. Swift was much downcast. There seemed to be nothing more to say,
and, being a man unversed in the ways of the world, he did not know
what to do. He returned hone. When Mrs. Baggert was made acquainted
with the news, she waxed indignant.

"Our Tom a thief!" she cried. "Why don't they accuse me and Mr. Jackson
and you? The idea! You ought to hire a lawyer, Mr. Swift, and prosecute
those men for slander."

"Do you think it would be a good plan?"

"I certainly do. Why they have no evidence at all! What does that mean,
sneaking Andy Foger amount to? Get a lawyer, and have Tom's interests
looked after."

Mr. Swift, glad to have someone share the responsibility with, felt
somewhat better when a well-known Shopton attorney assured him that the
evidence against Tom was of such a flimsy character that it would
scarcely hold in a court of justice.

"But they have warrants for him and Mr. Damon," declared the inventor.

"Very true, but it is easy to swear out a warrant against any one.
It's a different matter to prove a person guilty."

"But they can arrest my son."

"Yes--if they catch him. However, we can soon have him released on
bail."

"It's disgraceful," said Mrs. Baggert.

"Not at all, my dear madam, not at all. Good and innocent persons have
been arrested."

"They are going to send out a general alarm for my son," bewailed Mr.
Swift.

"Yes, but I fancy it will be some time before they catch him and Mr.
Damon, if the airship holds together. I can't think of a better way to
keep out of the clutches of the police, and their silly charge,"
chuckled the lawyer. "Now don't worry, Mr. Swift. It will all come out
right."

The inventor tried to believe so, but, though he knew his son was
innocent, it was rather hard to see, within the next few days, big
posters on all the vacant walls and fences, offering a reward of five
thousand dollars for the arrest of Tom Swift and Wakefield Damon, who
were charged with having flown away in an airship with seventy-five
thousand dollars of the bank's money.

"I guess Tom Swift will wish he'd been more decent to me when I collect
that money for his arrest," said Andy to his crony, Sam, the day the
bills were posted.

"Yes, but I get my share, don't I?" asked Sam.

"Sure," answered the bully. "I wish they'd hurry up and arrest him."

Within the next few days the country was covered with posters telling
of the robbery and the reward, and police officials in cities large and
small, and in towns and villages, were notified by telegraph to arrest
and capture, at any cost the occupants of a certain large, red airship.

Mr. Swift, on the advice of his lawyer, sent several telegrams to Tom,
apprising him of what had happened. The telegraph company was asked to
rush the telegrams to the first city when word came in that the Red
Cloud had landed.




Chapter 15

Fired Upon


Tom's excited call to the aeronaut, telling of the mishap to Mr. Damon,
was answered immediately. Mr. Sharp jumped forward from the motor
compartment, and, passing on his way the electric switch, he yanked it
out, stopping the machinery, and the great propellers. Then he leaped
out on the platform.

But something else happened. Just before the accident to the eccentric
man, desiring to give a further test to the planes, the gas had been
shut off, making the airship an aeroplane instead of a dirigible
balloon. Consequently, as soon as the forward motion ceased the great
ship began falling.

"We're sinking! We're sinking!" cried Tom, forgetting for a moment that
he was not in his motor-boat.

"Slant your rudder up, and glide downward as slowly as you can!"
directed Mr. Sharp. "I'll start the engine again as soon as I rescue
him," for it was risky to venture out on the platform with the
propeller whirring, as the dangling piece of scarf might whip around
the balloonist and toss him off.

Mr. Sharp was soon at Mr. Damon's side. He saw that the man was
unconscious, whether from fright or some injury could not then be
determined. There was, however, no sign of a wound.

It was no easy task to carry, half dragging it, the heavy body of Mr.
Damon off the platform, but the aeronaut was a muscular individual, and
long hanging from a trapeze, at great heights, stood him in good stead.

He brought the unconscious man into the cabin, and then, quickly
returning to the platform, he detached the piece of scarf from the
propeller blade. Next he started the motor, and also turned on the gas
tank, so that the airship, in a few minutes, could float in space
without motion.

"You needn't steer now, Tom," said the balloonist. "Just give me a hand
here."

"Is--is he dead?" inquired the lad, his voice faltering.

"No, his heart's beating. I can't understand what happened."

Mr. Sharp was something of a rough and ready surgeon and doctor, and a
small box of medicines had been brought along in case of emergencies.
With the Red Cloud now lazily floating in the air, for, once the
falling motion had been checked by the engine, the motor had been
stopped again, Mr. Sharp set about restoring Mr. Damon to consciousness.

It was not long before the man opened his eyes. The color that had left
his cheeks came back, and, after a drink of cold water he was able to
sit up.

"Did I fall?" he asked. "Bless my very existence, but did I tumble off
the airship?"

"No indeed," replied Tom, "though you came pretty near it. How do you
feel? Were you hurt?"

"Oh, I'm all right now--just a trifle dizzy. But I thought sure I was a
goner when I fell over the platform railing," and Mr. Damon could not
repress a shudder. Mr. Sharp administered some more medicine and his
patient was soon able to stand, and move about.

"How did it happen?" inquired the balloonist.

"I hardly know," answered Mr. Damon. "I was out on the platform,
looking at the view, and thinking how much better my neuralgia was,
with the scarf on. Suddenly the wind whipped loose one end of the
scarf, and, before I knew it the cloth had caught on the propeller
blade. I was blown, or drawn to one side, tossed against the railing,
which I managed to grab, and then I lost my senses. It's a good thing I
wasn't whirled around the propeller."

"It's a good thing you weren't tossed down to the earth," commented
Tom, shivering as he thought of his friend's narrow escape.

"I became unconscious, partly because the wind was knocked from me as I
hit the platform railing," went on Mr. Damon, "and partly from fright,
I think. But I'm all right now, and I'm not going out on that platform
again with a loose scarf on."

"I wouldn't go out at all again, if I were you, though, of course, I'm
used to dizzy heights," spoke Mr. Sharp.

"Oh, I'm not so easily frightened," declared Mr. Damon. "If I'm going
to be a balloonist, or an aeroplanist I've got to get used to certain
things. I'm all right now," and the plucky man was, for the blow to his
side did not amount to much. It was some time, however, before Tom got
over the fright his friend had caused him.

They spent that night moving slowly south, and in the morning found
they had covered about a hundred miles, not having run the ship to
anything like its maximum speed. Breakfast was served above the clouds,
for a change, Mr. Damon finding that he could stand the great height
with comfort.

It was three days after the start, and the travelers were proceeding
slowly along. They were totally unaware, of course, of the sensation
which their leaving, conjointly with the bank robbery, had caused, not
only in Shopton but in other places.

"We're over a good-sized city," announced Tom, on the noon of the third
day. "Suppose we drop down, and leave some message? Dad will be anxious
to hear from us."

"Good idea," commented Mr. Sharp. "Down it is. Shift the rudder."

Tom proceeded to do so, and, while Mr. Damon relieved him at the wheel
the young inventor prepared a message to his father. It was placed in a
weighted envelope, together with a sum of money, and the person picking
it up was requested to send the letter as a telegram, retaining some
money for his trouble.

As the ship got lower and lower over the city the usual crowds could be
seen congregating in the streets, pointing and gazing upward.

"We're creating quite a stir," observed Tom.

"More than usual, it seems," added Mr. Sharp, peering down. "I declare,
there seems to be a police parade under way."

"That's right," put in Mr. Damon, for, looking down, a squad of
uniformed officers, some on horseback, could be seen hurrying along the
main street, trying to keep pace with the airship, which was moving
slowly.

"They're looking at us through telescopes," called Tom. "Guess they
never saw a balloon down this way."

Nearer and nearer to the city dropped the Red Cloud. Tom was about to
let go the weighted envelope, when, from the midst of the police came
several puffs of white smoke. It was followed by vicious, zipping
sounds about the cabin of the ship, the windows of which were open.
Then came the reports of several rifles.

"They're firing at us!" yelled Tom.

"So they are!" cried Mr. Sharp. "They must be crazy! Can't they see
that we're not a bird."

"Maybe they take us for a war balloon," suggested Mr. Damon.

Another volley was directed at the airship, and several bullets struck
the big aluminum gas holder glancing blows.

"Here! Quit that!" yelled Tom, leaning out of the window. "Are you
crazy? You'll damage us!"

"They can't hear you," called Mr. Sharp.

A third volley was fired, and this time several persons other than
police officers seemed to be shooting at the airship. Revolvers as well
as rifles were being used.

"We're got to get out of this!" shouted Mr. Sharp, as a bullet sang
uncomfortably close to his head. "I can't imagine what's gotten into
the people. Send her up, Tom!"

The lad quickly shifted the elevation rudder, and the Red Cloud sailed
majestically aloft. The young inventor had not dropped his message,
concluding that citizens who would fire on travelers of the air for no
reason, would not be likely to accommodate them in the matter of
sending messages.

The craft mounted rapidly upward, but before it was beyond rifle shot
another volley was fired, one bullet sending some splinters flying from
the wooden framework.

"Whew! That was a narrow escape!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp. "What in the
world can those people be up to, anyhow?"




Chapter 16

Over a Fiery Furnace


Down below, the aeronauts could see the crowd, led by the police,
scurrying to and fro. Many individuals beside the officers appeared to
be holding weapons, and, from the puffs of smoke that spurted out, it
was evident that more shots were being fired. But the bullets could do
no harm, and the Red Cloud, under the force of the rapidly revolving
propellers, was soon beyond the center of the city.

"Well, if that isn't the limit!" cried Tom. "They must have taken us
for a German war balloon, about to drop explosives on them."

"Bless my liver!" ejaculated Mr. Damon, "I believe you're right. Eh,
Mr. Sharp?"

The veteran balloonist took a careful look over the craft before
replying. Then he spoke:

"It couldn't be that," and he shook his head, as if puzzled. "They
would know no foreign airship would try any trick like that. Beside, if
by some remote possibility they did imagine it, there would be soldiers
shooting at us, instead of the police. As it was, the whole population
seemed anxious to bring us down."

"And they nearly did," added Mr. Damon. "If they had shot a few holes
in the gas bag where would we be?"

"Right in the air," answered the balloonist. "It would take several
volleys of bullets to damage our aluminum container. It is in sections
and when one, or even five compartments, for that matter, are pierced,
there is enough gas in the others to sustain us. So they could not have
damaged us much, even if they had shot a lot of holes in us. Even
without the gas container we can keep afloat by constantly moving, for
the planes will serve their purpose. Of course they could damage us,
and maybe put some of our machinery out of business, and that would be
a serious thing. But what puzzles me is why they fired at us at all."

"It couldn't be out of pure mischief; could it?" asked the young
inventor.

"Hardly. If we were in a savage country I could understand the natives
firing at some such object as this airship, but the people of that city
must have known what our craft was. They probably have read something
about it in the news papers, and to deliberately fire on us, with the
chance of disabling us, seems worse than barbarous."

"Well, we won't give 'em another opportunity," commented Mr. Damon.

"No, indeed, not this city, but who knows but what the example may
spread? We may be fired at the next town we sail over."

"Then steer clear of the towns," advised Tom.

"Impossible. We must pass over some, but I'd like to solve this
mystery."

The day passed without further incident, though they did not go low
enough down over any city to drop any messages. It was decided that it
would not be safe.

"We'll take a chance at night," suggested Tom, and that evening,
approaching a good-sized town in the dusk, several of the weighted
envelopes were dropped overboard. Doubtless persons walking along the
street, who were startled by hearing something fall with a "thud" at
their feet, were much startled to look up and see, dimly, a great,
ghostly shape moving in the air. But there was no shooting, and,
eventually, some of the messages reached Mr. Swift, in Shopton. But he
could not answer them for the airship kept on the move.

The night was spent floating in the air, with the engine stopped, and
the Red Cloud floating lazily this way and that as the gentle winds
shifted, for it was calm. The "anchorage" if such it may be called, was
above a sparsely settled part of the country, and if the lights of the
airship were seen from below, the farmers doubtless took them for some
new stars or, possibly, a comet.

"Now then for a fast, straight run!" cried Tom, after breakfast had
been served, and the big motor, with its twenty cylinders, started.
"We'll be able to make the turn to-day, and then make for home, won't
we, Mr. Sharp?"

"Well, we could do it, Tom," was the answer, "but I like this mode of
traveling so that I think I'll lengthen the voyage. Instead of turning
at Atlanta, what do you say to making for Key West, and then starting
back? That will be something of a trip. The Red Cloud is behaving much
better than I hoped she would."

"I'm willing to go further if Mr. Damon is."

"Oh, bless my shoe strings, I'm game!" exclaimed the eccentric man. "I
always did want to go to Key West, anyhow."

The craft was speeding along at a fast clip, and dinner that day was
served about three miles in the air. Then, desiring to test the gliding
abilities of the airship, it was sent down on a long slant, with the
propellers stationary, the shifting planes and rudders alone guiding it.

As the craft fairly slid down out of the sky, like a sled on a bank of
fleecy snow, Tom, who was peering ahead, with his hand on the steering
wheel, cried out "I say! It looks as if we were going to run into a
thunder storm!"

"How's that?" inquired Mr. Sharp, poking his head from the motor
compartment.

"He says there's a big storm ahead," repeated Mr. Damon, "and I guess
he's right. I see a big bank of dark clouds, and there is a roaring in
the air."

Mr. Sharp, who had been making some adjustments to the motor went
forward to take a look. The Red Cloud was swiftly gliding downward on a
slant, straight toward a dark mass of vapor, that seemed to be rolling
first one way, and then another, while as Mr. Damon had said, there was
a low rumbling proceeding from it.

"That doesn't seem to be a thunder storm," spoke the balloonist, with a
puzzled air.

They all regarded the dark mass of vapor intently for a few seconds.
Tom had brought the airship to a more level keel, and it was now
spinning along under its own momentum, like a flat piece of tin, scaled
by some lead. But it was headed for the clouds, if such they were,
though losing speed by degrees.

"I'll have to start the motor!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp. "We don't want to
run into a storm, if we can help it, though I don't ever remember
seeing a thunder disturbance like that."

"Whew! It's getting warm," suddenly announced the youth, and he let go
of the steering wheel for a moment, while he took off his coat.

"That's what it is," agreed Mr. Damon, who also divested himself of his
garments. "Bless my spark plug, but it's like a July day. No wonder
there's a thunderstorm ahead."

Then Mr. Sharp uttered a cry. "That's no storm!" he fairly shouted.
"It's a big forest fire! That's smoke we see! We must get out of this.
Turn around Tom, while I start the engine. We must rise above it!"

He fairly leaped for the motor, and Tom and Mr. Damon could hear him
turning the levers and wheels, ready to start. But before the
explosions came something happened. There was a sound as of some great,
siren whistle blowing, and then, with a howl of the on rushing air, the
Red Cloud, the propellers of which hung motionless on their shafts, was
fairly sucked forward toward the fire, as the current sucks a boat over
a water fall.

"Start the motor! Start the motor, Mr. Sharp!" cried Tom.

"I'm trying to, but something seems to be the matter."

"We're being drawn right over the fire!" yelled Mr. Damon. "It's
getting hotter every minute! Can't you do something?"

"You take the wheel," called the balloonist to Mr. Damon. "Steer
around, just as if it was an auto when we start the engine. Tom, come
here and give me a hand. The motor has jammed!"

The young inventor sprang to obey. Mr. Damon, his face showing some of
the fear he felt, grasped the steering wheel. The airship was now about
a quarter of a mile high, but instead of resting motionless in the air,
sustained by the gas in the container, she was being pulled forward,
right toward the heart of the mass of black vapor, which it could now
be seen was streaked with bright tongues of flame.

"What's making us go ahead, if the motor isn't going?" asked Tom, as he
bent over the machine, at which the aeronaut was laboring.

"Suction--draught from the fire!" explained Mr. Sharp. "Heated air
rises and leaves a vacuum. The cold air rushes in. It's carrying us
with it. We'll be right in the fire in a few minutes, if we can't get
started with this motor! I don't see what ails it."

"Can't we steer to one side, as it is?"

"No. We're right in a powerful current of air, and steering won't do
any good, until we have some motion of our own. Turn the gasolene lever
on a little more, and see if you can get a spark."

Tom did so, but no explosion resulted. The twenty cylinders of the big
engine remained mute. The airship, meanwhile, was gathering speed,
sucked onward and downward as it was by the draught from the fire. The
roaring was plainer now, and the crackling of the flames could be heard
plainly. The heat, too, grew more intense.

Frantically Tom and Mr. Sharp labored over the motor. With the
perverseness usual to gas engines, it had refused to work at a critical
moment.

"What shall I do?" cried Mr. Damon from his position in the pilot
house. "We seem to be heading right for the midst of it?"

"Slant the elevation rudder," called Tom. "Send the ship up. It will be
cooler the higher we go. Maybe we can float over it!"

"You'd better go out there," advised Mr. Sharp. "I'll keep at this
motor. Go up as high as you can. Turn on more gas. That will elevate
us, but maybe not quick enough. The gas doesn't generate well in great
heat. I'm afraid we're in for it," he added grimly.

Tom sprang to relieve Mr. Damon. The heat was now intense. Nearer and
nearer came the Red Cloud to the blazing forest, which seemed to cover
several square miles. Great masses of smoke, with huge pieces of
charred and blazing wood carried up by the great draught, circled
around the ship. The Red Cloud was being pulled into the midst of the
fire by the strong suction. Tom yanked over the elevation rudder, and
the nose of the craft pointed upward. But it still moved downward, and,
a moment later the travelers of the air felt as if they were over a
fiery furnace.




Chapter 17

"Wanted For Robbery!"


Choking and gasping for breath, feeling as if they could not stand the
intense heat more than a moment longer, the young inventor and his
companions looked at each other. Death seemed ready to reach out and
grasp them. The mass of heated air was so powerful that it swung and
tossed the Red Cloud about as if it were a wisp of paper.

"We must do something!" cried Mr. Damon, beginning to take off his
collar and vest. "I'm choking!"

"Lie down in the bottom of the car," suggested Mr. Sharp. "The smoke
won't trouble you so much there."

The eccentric man, too startled, now, to use any of his "blessing"
expressions, did so.

"Can't you start the motor?" asked Tom frantically, as he stuck to his
post, with his hand on the steering wheel, the elevation lever jammed
back as far as it would go.

"I've done my best," answered the balloonist, gasping as he swallowed
some smoke. "I'm afraid--afraid it's all up with us. We should have
steered clear of this from the first. My, how it roars!"

The crackling and snapping of the flames below them, as they fed on the
dry wood, which no rain had wet for weeks, was like the rush of some
great cataract. Up swirled the dark smoke-clouds, growing hotter and
hotter all the while as the craft came nearer and nearer to the center
of the conflagration.

"We must rise higher!" cried Tom. "It's our only chance. Turn on the
gas machine full power, and fill the container. That will carry us up!"

"Yes, it's our only hope," muttered Mr. Sharp. "We must go up, but the
trouble is the gas doesn't generate so fast when there's too much heat.
We're bound to have to stay over this fiery pit for some time yet."

"We're going up a little!" spoke Tom hopefully, as he glanced at a
gauge near him. "We're fifteen hundred feet now, and we were only
twelve a while ago."

"Good! Keep the elevation rudder as it is, and I'll see what I can do
with the gas," advised the balloonist. "It's our only hope," and he
hurried into the engine room, which, like the other parts of the cabin,
was now murky with choking vapor and soot.

Suddenly the elevation gauge showed that they were falling. The airship
was going down.

"What's the matter?" called Mr. Damon, from the cabin floor.

"I don't know," answered Tom, "unless the rudder has broken."

He peered through the haze. No, the big elevation rudder was still in
place, but it seemed to have no effect on the shim.

"It's a down draught!" cried Mr. Sharp. "We're being sucked down. It
won't last but a few seconds. I've been in 'em before."

He seemed to have guessed rightly, for, the next instant the airship
was shooting upward again, and relief came to the aeronauts, though it
was not much, for the heat was almost unbearable, and they had taken
off nearly all their clothing.

"Lighten ship!" sung out Mr. Sharp. "Toss over all the things you think
we can spare, Tom. Some of the cases of provisions--we can get more--if
we need 'em. We must rise, and the gas isn't generating fast enough!"

There was no need for the young inventor at the steering wheel now, for
the craft simply could not be guided. It was swirled about, now this
way, now that, by the currents of heated air. At times it would rise a
considerable distance, only to be pulled down again, and, just before
Tom began to toss overboard some boxes of food, it seemed that the end
had come, for the craft went down so low that the upward leaping
tongues of flame almost reached the lower frame.

"I'll help you," gasped Mr. Damon, and while he and Tom tossed from the
cabin windows some of their stores, Mr. Sharp was frantically
endeavoring to make the gas generate faster.

It was slow work, but with the lightening of the ship their situation
improved. Slowly, so slowly that it seemed an age, the elevation
pointer went higher and higher on the dial.

"Sixteen hundred feet!" sung out Tom, pausing for a look at the gauge.
"That's the best yet!"

The heat was felt less, now, and every minute was improving their
situation. Slowly the hand moved. The gas was being made in larger
quantities now that the heat was less. Ten minutes more of agony, and
their danger was over. They were still above the burning area, but
sufficiently high so that only stray wisps of smoke enveloped them.

"Whew! But that was the worst ever!" cried Tom, as he sank exhausted on
a bench, and wiped his perspiring face. "We sure were in a bad way!"

"I should say so," agreed Mr. Sharp. "And if we don't get a breeze we
may have to stay here for some time."

"Why, can't you get that motor to work yet?" asked Mr. Damon. "Bless my
gaiters, but I'm all in, as the boys say."

"I'll have another try at the machine now," replied Mr. Sharp.
"Probably it will work now, after we're out of danger without the aid
of it."

His guess proved correct, for, in a few minutes, with the aid of Tom,
the motor started, the propellers revolved, and the Red Cloud was sent
swiftly out of the fire zone.

"Now we'd better take account of ourselves, our provisions, and the
ship," said Mr. Sharp, when they had flown about twenty miles, and were
much refreshed by the cooler atmosphere. "I don't believe the craft is
damaged any, except some of the braces may be warped by the heat. As
for the provisions, you threw over a lot; didn't you, Tom?"

"Well, I had to."

"Yes, I guess you did. Well, we'll make a landing."

"Do you think it will be safe?" asked Mr. Damon anxiously. "We might be
fired upon again."

"Oh, there's no danger of that. But I'll take precautions. I don't want
a big crowd around when we come down, so we'll pick out a secluded
place and land just at dusk. Then in the morning we can look over the
ship, and go to the nearest town to buy provisions. After that we can
continue our journey, and we'll steer clear of forest fires after this."

"And people who shoot at us," added Mr. Damon.

"Yes. I wish I knew what that was done for," and once again came that
puzzled look to the face of the balloonist.

The airship gently descended that evening in a large level field, a
good landing being made. Just before the descent Tom took an
observation and located, about two miles from the spot they selected
for an "anchorage," a good-sized village.

"We can get provisions there," he announced.

"Yes, but we must not let it be known what they are for," said Mr.
Sharp, "or we'll have the whole population out here. I think this will
be a good plan: Tom, you and Mr. Damon go into town and buy the things
we need. I'll stay here with the airship, and look it all over. You can
arrange to have the stuff carted out here in the morning, and left at a
point say about a quarter of a mile away. Then we can carry it to the
ship. In that way no one will discover us, and we'll not be bothered
with curiosity-seekers."

This was voted a good idea, and, when the landing had been made, and a
hasty examination showed that the ship had suffered no great damage
from the passage over the fire, the young inventor and Mr. Damon
started off.

They soon found a good road, leading to town, and tramped along it in
the early evening. The few persons they met paid little attention to
them, save to bow in a friendly fashion, and, occasionally wish them
good evening.

"I wonder where we are?" asked Tom, as they hurried along.

"In some southern town, to judge by the voices of the people, and the
number of colored individuals we've met," answered Mr. Damon.

"Let's ask," suggested Tom.

"No, if you do they'll know we're strangers, and they may ask a lot of
questions."

"Oh, I guess if it's a small place they'll know we're strangers soon
enough," commented Tom. "But when we get to the village itself we can
read the name on the store windows."

A few minutes later found them in the midst of a typical southern town.
It was Berneau, North Carolina, according to the signs, they saw.

"Here's a restaurant," called Tom, as they passed a neat-appearing one.
"Let's go inside and get some supper before we buy our supplies."

"Good!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Bless my flapjacks, but I am beginning to
feel hungry."

The eating place was a good one, and Tom's predictions about their
being taken for strangers was verified, for, no sooner had they given
their orders than the pretty, white girl, who waited on the table
remarked:

"Ah reckon yo' all are from th' no'th; aren't yo'?" She smiled, as she
spoke, and Tom smiled back as he acknowledged it.

"Have you a paper--a newspaper I could look at?" he asked.

"Ah guess Ah can find one," went on the girl. "Ah reckon yo' all are
from N' York. N' Yorkers are so desperant bent on readin' th' news."
Her tones were almost like those of a colored person.

"Yes, we're from a part of New York," was Tom's reply.

When a newspaper was brought to him, after they had nearly finished
their meal, the young inventor rapidly scanned the pages. Something on
the front sheet, under a heading of big, black type caught his eye. He
started as he read it.


  WANTED FOR ROBBERY!
  BANK LOOTERS ESCAPE IN RED AIRSHIP--FIRED AT
  BUT DISAPPEAR


"Great Jehosophat!" exclaimed Tom, in a low voice. "What on earth can
this mean?"

"What?" inquired Mr. Damon. "Has anything happened?"

"Happened? I should say there had," was the answer. "Why, we're accused
of having robbed the Shopton Bank of seventy-five thousand dollars the
night before we left, and to have taken it away in the Red Cloud.
There's a general alarm out for us! Why this is awful!"

"It's preposterous!" burst out Mr. Damon. "I'll have my lawyers sue
this paper. Bless my stocks and bonds, I!"

"Hush! Not so loud," cautioned Tom, for the pretty waitress was
watching them curiously. "Here, read this, and then we'll decide what
to do. But one thing is certain, we must go back to Shopton at once to
clear ourselves of this accusation."

"Ha!" murmured Mr. Damon, as he read the article rapidly. "Now I know
why they fired at us. They hoped to bring us down, capture us, and get
the five thousand dollars reward!"




Chapter 18

Back For Vindication


Tom glanced around the restaurant. There were few persons in it save
himself and Mr. Damon. The pretty waitress was still regarding the two
curiously.

"We ought to take that paper along with us, to show to Mr. Sharp," said
Tom, in a low voice to his friend. "I haven't had time to take it all
in myself, yet. Let's go. I've had enough to eat, haven't you?"

"Yes. My appetite is gone now."

As they arose, to pay their checks the girl advanced.

"Can you tell me where I can get a copy of this paper?" asked Tom, as
he laid down a generous tip on the table, for the girl. Her eyes opened
rather wide.

"Yo' all are fo'gettin' some of yo' money," she said, in her broad,
southern tones. Tom thought her the prettiest girl he ever seen,
excepting Mary Nestor.

"Oh, that's for you," replied the young inventor. "It's a tip. Aren't
you in the habit of getting them down here?"

"Not very often. Thank yo' all. But what did yo' all ask about that
paper?"

"I asked where I could get a copy of it. There is something in it that
interests me."

"Yes, an' Ah reckon Ah knows what it is," exclaimed the girl. "It's
about that airship with th' robbers in it!"

"How do you know?" inquired Tom quickly, and he tried to seem cool,
though he felt the hot blood mounting to his cheeks.

"Oh, Ah saw yo' all readin' it. Everybody down heah is crazy about it.
We all think th' ship is comin' down this way, 'cause it says th'
robbers was intendin' to start south befo' they robbed th' bank. Ah
wish Ah could collect thet five thousand dollars. If Ah could see that
airship, I wouldn't work no mo' in this eatin' place. What do yo' all
reckon thet airship looks like?" and the girl gazed intently at Tom and
Mr. Damon.

"Why, bless my--" began the eccentric man, but Tom broke in hurriedly:

"Oh, I guess it looks like most any other airship," for he feared that
if his companion used any of his odd expressions he might be
recognized, since our hero had not had time to read the article in the
paper through, and was not sure whether or not a description of
himself, Mr. Damon and Mr. Sharp was given.

"Well, Ah suah wish I could collect thet reward," went on the girl.
"Everybody is on th' lookout. Yo' all ain't see th' airship; have yo'
all?"

"Where can we get a paper like this?" asked Tom, again, not wanting to
answer such a leading question.

"Why, yo' all is suah welcome to that one," was the reply. "Ah guess Ah
can affo'd to give it to yo' all, after th' generous way yo' all
behaved to me. Take it, an' welcome. But are yo' all suah yo' are done
eatin'? Yo' all left lots."

"Oh, we had enough," replied Tom hurriedly. His sole aim now was to get
away--to consult with Mr. Sharp, and he needed the paper to learn
further details of the astonishing news. He and his friends accused of
looting the bank, and taking away seventy-five thousand dollars in the
airship! It was incredible! A reward of five thousand dollars offered
for their capture! They might be arrested any minute, yet they could
not go on without buying some provisions. What were they to do?

Once outside the restaurant, Mr. Damon and Tom walked swiftly on. They
came to a corner where there was a street lamp, and there the young
inventor paused to scan the paper again. It was the copy of a journal
published in the nearby county seat, and contained quite a full account
of the affair.

The story was told of how the bank had been broken into, the vault
rifled and the money taken. The first clue, it said, was given by a
youth named Andy Foger, who had seen a former acquaintance hanging
around the bank with burglar tools. Tom recognized the description of
himself as the "former acquaintance," but he could not understand the
rest.

"Burglar tools? I wonder how Andy could say that?" he asked Mr. Damon.

"Wait until we get back, and we'll ask John Sharp," suggested his
companion. "This is very strange. I am going to sue some one for
spreading false reports about me! Bless my ledgers, why I have money on
deposit in that bank! To think that I would rob it!"

"Poor dad!" murmured Tom. "This must be hard for him. But what about
ordering food? Maybe if we buy any they will trail us, find the airship
and capture it. I don't want to be arrested, even if I am innocent, and
I certainly don't want the airship to fall into the hands of the
police. They might damage it."

"We must go see Mr. Sharp," declared Mr. Damon, and back to where the
Red Cloud was concealed they went.

To say that the balloonist was astonished is putting it mildly. He was
even more excited than was Mr. Damon.

"Wait until I get hold of that Andy Foger!" he cried. "I'll make him
sweat for this! I see he's already laid claim to the reward," he added,
reading further along in the article. "He thinks he has put the police
on our trail."

"So he seems to have done," added Tom. "The whole country has been
notified to look out for us," the paper says. "We're likely to be fired
upon whenever we pass over a city or a town."

"Then we'll have to avoid them," declared the balloonist.

"But we must go back," declared Tom.

"Of course. Back to be vindicated. We'll have to give up our trip. My,
my! But this is a surprise!"

"I don't see what makes Andy say he saw me with burglar tools,"
commented Tom, with a puzzled air.

Mr. Sharp thought for a moment. Then he exclaimed "It was that bag of
tools I sent you after--the long wrenches, the pliers, and the brace
and bits.  You--"

"Of course!" cried Tom. "I remember now. The bag dropped and opened,
and Andy and Sam saw the tools. But the idea of taking them for burglar
tools!"

"Well, I suppose the burglars, whoever they were, did use tools similar
to those to break open the vault," put in Mr. Damon. "Andy probably
thought he was a smart lad to put the police on our track."

"I'll put him on the track, when I return," declared Mr. Sharp. "Well,
now, what's to be done?"

"We've got to have food," suggested Tom.

"Yes, but I think we can manage that. I've been looking over the ship,
as best I could in the dark. It seems to be all right. We can start
early in the morning without anyone around here knowing we paid their
town a visit. You and Mr. Damon go back to town, Tom, and order some
stuff. Have the man leave it by the roadside early to-morrow morning.
Tell him it's for some travelers, who will stop and pick it up. Pay him
well, and tell him to keep quiet, as it's for a racing party.  That's
true enough. We're going to race home to vindicate our reputations. I
think that will be all right."

"The man may get suspicious," said Mr. Damon.

"I hope not," answered the balloonist. "We've got to take a chance,
anyhow."

The plan worked well, however, the store keeper promising to have the
supplies on hand at the time and place mentioned. He winked as Tom
asked him to keep quiet about it.

"Oh, I know yo' automobile fellers," he said with a laugh. "You want to
get some grub on the fly, so you won't have to stop, an' can beat th'
other fellow. I know you, fer I see them automobile goggles stickin'
out of your pocket."

Tom and Mr. Damon each had a pair, to use when the wind was strong, but
the young inventor had forgotten about his. They now served him a good
turn, for they turned the thoughts of the storekeeper into a new
channel. The lad let it go at that, and, paying for such things as he
and Mr. Damon could not carry, left the store.

The aeronauts passed an uneasy night. They raised their ship high in
the air, anchoring it by a rope fast to a big tree, and they turned on
no lights, for they did not want to betray their position. They
descended before it was yet daylight, and a little later hurried to the
place where the provisions were left. They found their supplies safely
on hand, and, carrying them into the airship, prepared to turn back to
Shopton.

As the ship rose high in the air a crowd of negro laborers passing
through a distant field, saw it. At once they raised a commotion,
shouting and pointing to the wonderful sight.

"We're discovered!" cried Tom.

"No matter," answered Mr. Sharp. "We'll soon be out of sight, and we'll
fly high the rest of this trip."

Tom looked down on the fast disappearing little hamlet, and he thought
of the pretty girl in the restaurant.




Chapter 19

Wrecked


With her nose headed north, the Red Cloud swung along through the air.
Those on board were thinking of many things, but chief among them was
the unjust accusation that had been made against them, by an
irresponsible boy--the red-haired Andy Foger. They read the account in
the paper again, seeking to learn from it new things at each perusal.

"It's just a lot of circumstantial evidence that's what it is," said
Tom. "I admit it might look suspicious to anyone who didn't know us,
but Andy Foger has certainly done the most mischief by his conclusions.
Burglar tools! The idea!"

"I think I shall sue the bank for damages," declared Mr. Damon. "They
have injured my reputation by making this accusation against me.
Anyhow, I'll certainly never do any more business with them, and I'll
withdraw my ten thousand dollars deposit, as soon as we get back."

"Mr. Sharp doesn't seem to be accused of doing anything at all,"
remarked Tom, reading the article for perhaps the tenth time.

"Oh, I guess I'm a sort of general all-around bad man, who helped you
burglars to escape with the booty," answered the balloonist, with a
laugh. "I expect to be arrested along with you two."

"But must we be arrested?" inquired Tom anxiously. "I don't like that
idea at all. We haven't done anything."

"This is my plan," went on Mr. Sharp. "We'll get back to Shopton as
quickly as we can. We'll arrive at night, so no one will see us, and,
leaving the airship in some secluded spot, we'll go to the police and
explain matters. We can easily prove that we had nothing to do with the
robbery. Why we were all home the night it happened! Mr. Swift, Mr.
Jackson and Mrs. Baggert can testify to that."

"Yes," agreed Mr. Damon. "I guess they can. Bless my bank book, but
that seems a good plan. We'll follow it."

Proceeding on the plan which they had decided was the best one, the Red
Cloud was sent high into the air. So high up was it that, at times it
was above the clouds. Though this caused some little discomfort at
first, especially to Mr. Damon, he soon became used to it, as did the
others. And it had the advantage of concealing them from the persons
below who might be on the lookout.

"For we don't want to be shot at again," explained Mr. Sharp. "It isn't
altogether healthy, and not very safe. If we keep high up they can't
see us; much less shoot at us. They'll take us for some big bird. Then,
too, we can go faster."

"I suppose there will be another alarm sent out, from those negroes
having sighted us," ventured Tom.

"Oh, yes, but those colored fellows were so excited they may describe
us as having horns, hoofs and a tail, and their story may not be
believed. I'm not worrying about them. My chief concern is to drive the
Red Cloud for all she is worth. I want to explain some things back
there in Shopton."

As if repenting of the way it had misbehaved over the forest fire, the
airship was now swinging along at a rapid rate. Seated in the cabin the
travelers would have really enjoyed the return trip had it not been for
the accusation hanging over them. The weather was fine and clear, and
as they skimmed along, now and then coming out from the clouds, they
caught glimpses below them of the earth above which they were
traveling. They had a general idea of their location, from knowing the
town where the paper had given them such astounding news, and it was
easy to calculate their rate of progress.

After running about a hundred miles or so, at high speed Mr. Sharp
found it necessary to slow down the motor, as some of the new bearings
were heating. Still this gave them no alarm, as they were making good
time. They came to a stop that night, and calculated that by the next
evening, or two at the latest, they would be back in Shopton. But they
did not calculate on an accident.

One of the cylinders on the big motor cracked, as they started up next
morning, and for some hours they had to hang in the air, suspended by
the gas in the container, while Mr. Sharp and Tom took out the damaged
part, and put in a spare one, the cylinders being cast separately. It
was dusk when they finished, and too late to start up, so they remained
about in the same place until the next day.

Morning dawned with a hot humidness, unusual at that time of the year,
but partly accounted for by the fact that they were still within the
influence of the southern climate. With a whizz the big propellers were
set in motion, and, with Tom at the wheel, the ship being about three
miles in the air, to which height it had risen after the repairs were
made, the journey was recommenced.

"It's cooler up here than down below," remarked Tom, as he shifted the
wheel and rudder a bit, in response to a gust of wind, that heeled the
craft over.

"Yes, I think we're going to have a storm," remarked Mr. Sharp, eyeing
the clouds with a professional air. "We may run ahead of it, or right
into it. We'll go down a bit, toward night, when there's less danger of
being shot."

So far, on their return trip, they had not been low enough, in the day
time, to be in any danger from persons who hoped to earn the five
thousand dollars reward.

The afternoon passed quickly, and it got dark early. There was a
curious hum to the wind, and, hearing it, Mr. Sharp began to go about
the ship, seeing that everything was fast and taut.

"We're going to have a blow," he remarked, "and a heavy one, too.
We'll have to make everything snug, and be ready to go up or down, as
the case calls for."

"Up or down?" inquired Mr. Damon.

"Yes. By rising we may escape the blow, or, by going below the strata
of agitated air, we may escape it."

"How about rain?"

"Well, you can get above rain, but you can't get below it, with the law
of gravitation working as it does at present. How's the gas generator,
Tom?"

"Seems to be all right," replied the young inventor, who had
relinquished the wheel to the balloonist.

They ate an early supper, and, hardly had the dishes been put away,
when from the west, where there was a low-flying bank of clouds, there
came a mutter of thunder. A little later there was a dull, red
illumination amid the rolling masses of vapor.

"There's the storm, and she's heading right this way," commented Mr.
Sharp.

"Can't you avoid it?" asked Mr. Damon, anxiously.

"I could, if I knew how high it was, but I guess we'll wait and see how
it looks as we get closer."

The airship was flying on, and the storm, driven by a mighty wind, was
rushing to meet it. Already there was a sighing, moaning sound in the
wire and wooden braces of the Red Cloud.

Suddenly there came such a blast that it heeled the ship over on her
side.

"Shift the equilibrium rudders!" shouted Mr. Sharp to Tom, turning the
wheel and various levers over to the lad. "I'm going to get more speed
out of the motor!"

Tom acted just in time, and, after bobbing about like a cork on the
water, the ship was righted, and sent forging ahead, under the
influence of the propellers worked at top speed. Nor was this any too
much, for it needed all the power of the big engine to even partially
overcome the force of the wind that was blowing right against the Red
Cloud. Of course they might have turned and flown before it, but they
wanted to go north, not south--they wanted to face their accusers.

Then, after the first fury of the blast had spent itself, there came a
deluge of rain, following a dazzling glare of lightning and a bursting
crash of thunder.

In spite of the gale buffeting her, the airship was making good
progress. The skill of Tom and the balloonist was never shown to better
advantage. All around them the storm raged, but through it the craft
kept on her way. Nothing could be seen but pelting sheets of water and
swirling mist, yet onward the ship was driven.

The thunder was deafening, and the lightning nearly blinded them, until
the electrics were switched on, flooding the cabin with radiance.
Inside the car they were snug and dry, though the pitching of the craft
was like that of a big liner in the trough of the ocean waves.

"Will she weather it, do you think?" called Mr. Damon, in the ear of
Mr. Sharp, shouting so as to be heard above the noise of the elements,
and the hum of the motor.

The balloonist nodded.

"She's a good ship," he answered proudly.

Hardly had he spoken when there came a crash louder than any that had
preceded, and the flash of rosy light that accompanied it seemed to set
the whole heavens on fire. At the same time there was violent shock to
the ship.

"We're hit! Struck by lightning!" yelled Tom.

"We're falling!" cried Mr. Damon an instant later.

Mr. Sharp looked at the elevation gauge. The hand was slowly swinging
around. Down, down dropped the Red Cloud. She was being roughly treated
by the storm.

"I'm afraid we're wrecked!" said the balloonist in a low voice,
scarcely audible above the roar of the tempest. Following the great
crash had come a comparatively light bombardment from the sky artillery.

"Use the gliding rudder, Tom," called Mr. Sharp, a moment later. "We
may fall, but we'll land as easily as possible."

The wind, the rain, the lightning and thunder continued. Down, down
sank the ship. Its fall was somewhat checked by the rudder Tom swung
into place, and by setting the planes at a different angle. The motor
had been stopped, and the propellers no longer revolved. In the
confusion and darkness it was not safe to run ahead, with the danger of
colliding with unseen objects on the earth.

They tried to peer from the windows, but could see nothing. A moment
later, as they stared at each other with fear in their eyes, there came
a shock. The ship trembled from end to end.

"We've landed!" cried Tom, as he yanked back on the levers. The airship
came to a stop.

"Now to see where we are," said Mr. Sharp grimly, "and how badly we are
wrecked."




Chapter 20

Tom Gets A Clue


Out of the cabin of the now stationary airship hurried the three
travelers; out into the pelting rain, which was lashed into their faces
by the strong wind. Tom was the first to emerge.

"We're on something solid!" he cried, stamping his feet. "A rock, I
guess."

"Gracious, I hope we're not on a rock in the midst of a river!"
exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Bless my soul, though! The water does seem to be
running around my ankles."

"There's enough rain to make water run almost up to our necks," called
Mr. Sharp, above the noise of the storm. "Tom, can you make out where
we are?"

"Not exactly. Is the ship all right?"

"I can't see very well, but there appears to be a hole in the gas
container. A big one, too, or we wouldn't have fallen so quickly."

The plight of the travelers of the air was anything but enviable. They
were wet through, for it needed only a few minutes exposure to the
pelting storm to bring this about. They could not tell, in the midst of
the darkness, where they were, and they almost feared to move for fear
they might be on top of some rock or precipice, over which they might
tumble if they took a false step.

"Let's get back inside the ship," proposed Mr. Damon. "It's warm and
dry there, at all events. Bless my umbrella, I don't know when I've
been so wet!"

"I'm not going in until I find out where we are," declared Tom. "Wait a
minute, and I'll go in and get an electric flash lantern. That will
show us," for the lightning had ceased with the great crash that seemed
to have wrecked the Red Cloud. The rain still kept up, however, and
there was a distant muttering of thunder, while it was so black that
had not the lights in the cabin of the airship been faintly glowing
they could hardly have found the craft had they moved ten feet away
from it.

Tom soon returned with the portable electric lamp, operated by dry
batteries. He flashed it on the surface of where they were standing,
and uttered an exclamation.

"We're on a roof!" he cried.

"A roof?" repeated Mr. Damon.

"Yes; the roof of some large building, and what you thought was a river
is the rain water running off it. See!"

The young inventor held the light down so his companions could observe
the surface of that upon which the airship rested. There was no doubt
of it. They were on top of a large building.

"If we're on a roof we must be in the midst of a city," objected Mr.
Damon. "But I can't see any lights around, and we would see them if we
were in a city, you know."

"Maybe the storm put the lights out of business," suggested Mr. Sharp.
"That often occurs."

"I know one way we can find out for certain," went on Tom.

"How?"

"Start up our search lamp, and play it all around. We can't make sure
how large this roof is in the dark, and it's risky trying to trace the
edges by walking around."

"Yes, and it would be risky to start our searchlight going," objected
Mr. Sharp. "People would see it, and there'd be a crowd up here in less
than no time, storm or no storm. No, we've got to keep dark until I can
see what's the matter. We must leave here before daylight."

"Suppose we can't?" asked Mr. Damon. "The crowds will be sure to see us
then, anyhow."

"I am pretty sure we can get away," was the opinion of the balloonist.
"Even if our gas container is so damaged that it will not sustain us,
we are still an aeroplane, and this roof being flat will make a good
place to start from. No, we can leave as soon as this storm lets up a
little."

"Then I'm going to have a look and find out what sort of a building
this is," declared Tom, and, while Mr. Sharp began a survey, as well as
he could in the dark, of the airship, the young inventor proceeded
cautiously to ascertain the extent of the roof.

The rain was not coming down quite so hard now, and Tom found it easier
to see. Mr. Damon, finding he could do nothing to help, went back into
the cabin, blessing himself and his various possessions at the queer
predicament in which they found themselves.

Flashing his light every few seconds, Tom walked on until he came to
one edge of the roof. It was very large, as he could judge by the time
it took him to traverse it. There was a low parapet at the edge. He
peered over, and an expanse of dark wall met his eyes.

"Must have come to one side," he reasoned. "I want to get to the front.
Then, maybe, I can see a sign that will tell me what I want to know."

The lad turned to the left, and, presently came to another parapet. It
was higher, and ornamented with terra-cotta bricks. This, evidently,
was the front. As Tom peered over the edge of the little raised ledge,
there flashed out below him hundreds of electric lights. The city
illuminating plant was being repaired. Then Tom saw flashing below him
one of those large signs made of incandescent lights. It was in front
of the building, and as soon as our hero saw the words he knew where
the airship had landed. For what he read, as he leaned over, was this:



MIDDLEVILLE ARCADE



Tom gave a cry.

"What's the matter?" called Mr. Sharp.

"I've discovered something," answered Tom, hurrying up to his friend.
"We're on top of the Middleville Arcade building."

"What does that mean?"

"It means that we're not so very far from home, and in the midst of a
fairly large city. But it means more than that."

"What?" demanded the balloonist, struck by an air of excitement about
the lad, for, as Tom stood in the subdued glow of the lights from one
of the airship's cabin windows, all the others having been darkened as
the storm slackened, his, eyes shone brightly.

"This is the building where Anson Morse, one of the gang that robbed
dad, once had an office," went on Tom eagerly. "That was brought out at
the trial. And it's the place where they used to do some of their
conspiring. Maybe some of the crowd are here now laying low."

"Well, if they are, we don't want anything to do with that gang," said
Mr. Sharp. "We can't arrest them. Besides I've found out that our ship
is all right, after all. We can proceed as soon as we like. There is
only a small leak in the gas container. It was the generator machine
that was put out of business by the lightning, and I've repaired it."

"I want to see if I can get any trace of the rascals. Maybe I could
learn something from the janitor of the Arcade about them. The janitor
is probably here."

"But why do you want to get any information about that gang?"

"Because," answered Tom, and, as Mr. Damon at that moment started to
come from the cabin of the airship, the lad leaped forward and
whispered the remainder of the sentence into the ear of the balloonist.

"You don't mean it!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp, in a tense whisper. Tom
nodded vigorously.

"But how can you enter the building?" asked the other. "You can't drop
over the edge."

"Down the scuttle," answered Tom. "There must be one on the roof, for
they have to come up here at times. We can force the lock, if
necessary. I want to enter the building and see where Morse had his
office."

"All right. Go ahead. I'll engage Mr. Damon here so he won't follow
you. It will be great news for him. Go ahead."

Under pretense of wanting the help of the eccentric man in completing
the repairs he had started, Mr. Sharp took Mr. Damon back into the
cabin. Tom, getting a big screwdriver from an outside toolbox,
approached the scuttle on the roof. He could see it looming up in the
semidarkness, a sort of box, covering a stairway that led down into the
building. The door was locked, but Tom forced it, and felt justified. A
few minutes later, cautiously flashing his light, almost like a burglar
he thought, he was prowling around the corridors of the office
structure.

Was it deserted? That was what he wanted to know. He knew the office
Morse had formerly occupied was two floors from the top. Tom descended
the staircase, trying to think up some excuse to offer, in case he met
the watchman or janitor. But he encountered no one. As he reached the
floor where he knew Morse and his gang were wont to assemble, he paused
and listened. At first he heard nothing, then, as the sound of the
storm became less he fancied he heard the murmur of voices.

"Suppose it should be some of them?" whispered Tom.

He went forward, pausing at almost every other step to listen. The
voices became louder. Tom was now nearly at the office, where Morse had
once had his quarters. Now he could see it, and his heart gave a great
thump as he noticed that the place was lighted. The lad could read the
name on the door. "Industrial Development Company." That was the name
of a fake concern headed by Morse. As our hero looked he saw the
shadows of two men thrown on the ground glass.

"Some one's in there!" he whispered to himself. He could now hear the
voices much plainer. They came from the room, but the lad could not
distinguish them as belonging to any of the gang with whom he had come
in contact, and who had escaped from jail.

The low murmur went on for several seconds.

The listener could make out no words. Suddenly the low, even mumble was
broken. Some one cried out "There's got to be a divvy soon.  There's no
use letting Morse hold that whole seventy-five thousand any longer. I'm
going to get what's coming to me, or--"

"Hush!" some one else cried. "Be quiet!"

"No, I won't! I want my share. I've waited long enough. If I don't get
what's coming to me inside of a week, I'll go to Shagmon myself and
make Morse whack up. I helped on the job, and I want my money!"

"Will you be quiet?" pleaded another, and, at that instant Tom heard
some one's hand on the knob. The door opened a crack, letting out a
pencil of light. The men were evidently coming out. The young inventor
did not wait to hear more. He had a clue now, and, running on tiptoes,
he made his way to the staircase and out of the scuttle on the roof.




Chapter 21

On The Trail


"What's the matter, Tom?" asked Mr. Sharp, as the lad came hurrying
along the roof, having taken the precaution to fasten the scuttle door
as well as he could. "You seem excited." "So would you, if you had
heard what I did."

"What? You don't mean that some of the gang is down there?"

"Yes, and what's more I'm on the trail of the thieves who robbed the
Shopton Bank of the seventy-five thousand dollars!"

"No! You don't mean it!"

"I certainly do."

"Then we'd better tell Mr. Damon. He's in the cabin."

"Of course I'll tell him. He's as much concerned as I am. He wants to
be vindicated. Isn't it great luck, though?"

"But you haven't landed the men yet. Do you mean to say that the same
gang--the Happy Harry crowd--robbed the bank?"

"I think so, from what I heard. But come inside and I'll tell you all
about it."

"Suppose we start the ship first? It's ready to run. There wasn't as
much the matter with it as I feared. The storm is over now, and we'll
be safer up in the air than on this roof. Did you get all the
information you could?"

"All I dared to. The men were coming out, so I had to run. They were
quarreling, and when that happens among thieves--"

"Why honest men get their dues, everyone knows that proverb,"
interrupted Mr. Damon, again emerging from the cabin. "But bless my
quotation marks, I should think you'd have something better to do than
stand there talking proverbs."

"We have," replied Mr. Sharp quickly. "We're going to start the ship,
and then we have some news for you. Tom, you take the steering wheel,
and I'll start the gas machine. We'll rise to some distance before
starting the propellers, and then we won't create any excitement."

"But what news are you going to tell me?" asked Mr. Damon. "Bless my
very existence, but you get me all excited, and then you won't gratify
my curiosity."

"In a little while we will," responded Mr. Sharp. "Lively now, Tom.
Some one may see this airship on top of the building, as it's getting
so much lighter now, after the storm."

The outburst of the elements was almost over and Tom taking another
look over the edge of the roof, could see persons moving about in the
street below. The storm clouds were passing and a faint haze showed
where a moon would soon make its appearance, thus disclosing the craft
so oddly perched upon the roof. There was need of haste.

Fortunately the Red Cloud could be sent aloft without the use of the
propellers, for the gas would serve to lift her. It had been found that
lightning had struck the big, red aluminum container, but the shock had
been a comparatively slight one, and, as the tank was insulated from
the rest of the ship no danger resulted to the occupants. A rent was
made in two or three of the gas compartments, but the others remained
intact, and, when an increased pressure of the vapor was used the ship
was almost as buoyant as before.

Into the cabin the three travelers hurried, dripping water at every
step, for there was no time to change clothes. Then, with Tom and Mr.
Sharp managing the machinery, the craft slowly rose. It was well that
they had started for, when a few hundred feet above the roof, the moon
suddenly shone from behind a bank of clouds and would most certainly
have revealed their position to persons in the street. As it was
several were attracted by the sight of some great object in the air.
They called the attention of others to it, but, by the time glasses and
telescopes had been brought to bear, the Red Cloud was far away.

"Dry clothes now, some hot drinks, and then Tom will tell us his
secret," remarked Mr. Sharp, and, with the great ship swaying high
above the city of Middleville Tom told what he had heard in the office
building.

"They are the thieves who looted the bank, and caused us to be unjustly
accused," he finished. "If we can capture them we'll get the reward,
and turn a neat trick on Andy Foger and his cronies."

"But how can you capture them?" asked Mr. Damon. "You don't know where
they are."

"Perhaps not where Morse and the men who have the money are. But I have
a plan. It's this: We'll go to some quiet place, leave the airship, and
then inform the authorities of our suspicions. They can come here and
arrest the men who still seem to be hanging out in Morse's office. Then
we can get on the trail of this Shagmon, who seems to be the person in
authority this time, though I never heard of him before."

"He seems to have the money, according to what one of the men in the
office said, and he's the man we want."

"Shagmon!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Yes, Shagmon. The fellow I heard
talking 'said he'd go to Shagmon and make Morse whack up. Shagmon may
be the real head of the gang."

"Ha! I have it!" cried Mr. Damon suddenly. "I wonder I didn't think of
it before. Shagmon is the headquarters, not the head of the gang!"

"What do you mean?" asked Tom, much excited.

"I mean that there's a town called Shagmon about fifty miles from here.
That's what the fellow in the office meant. He is going to the town of
Shagmon and make Morse whack up. That's where Morse is! That's where
the gang is hiding! That's where the money is! Hurrah, Tom, we're on
the trail!"




Chapter 22

The Sheriff On Board


The announcement of Mr. Damon came as a great surprise to Tom and Mr.
Sharp. They had supposed that the reference to Shagmon was to a person,
and never dreamed that it was to a locality. But Mr. Damon's knowledge
of geography stood them in good stead.

"Well, what's the first thing to do?" asked Tom, after a pause.

"The first thing would be to go to Shagmon, or close to it, I should
say," remarked Mr. Sharp. "In what direction is it, Mr. Damon?"

"Northwest from where we were. It's a county seat, and that will suit
our plans admirably, for we can call on the sheriff for help."

"That is if we locate the gang," put in Tom. "I fancy it will be no
easy job, though. How are we going about it?"

"Let's first get to Shagmon," suggested the balloonist. "We'll select
some quiet spot for a landing, and then talk matters over. We may
stumble on the gang, just as you did, Tom, on the men in the office."

"No such good luck, I'm afraid."

"Well, I think we'll all be better for a little sleep," declared the
eccentric man. "Bless my eyelids but I'm tired out."

As there was no necessity for standing watch, when the airship was so
high up as to be almost invisible, they all turned in, and were soon
sleeping soundly, though Tom had hard work at first to compose himself,
for he was excited at the prospect of capturing the scoundrels,
recovering the money for the bank, and clearing his good name, as well
as those of his friends.

In the morning careful calculations were made to enable the travelers
to tell when they had reached a point directly over the small city of
Shagmon, and, with the skill of the veteran balloonist to aid them,
this was accomplished. The airship was headed in the proper direction,
and, about ten o'clock, having made out by using telescopes, that there
was plenty of uninhabited land about the city, the craft was sent aloft
again, out of a large crowd that had caught sight of it.  For it was
the intention of the travelers not to land until after dark, as they
wanted to keep their arrival quiet. There were two reasons for this.
One was that the whole country was eager to arrest them, to claim the
reward offered by the bank, and they did not want this to happen. The
other reason was that they wanted to go quietly into town, tell the
sheriff their story, and enlist his aid.

All that day the Red Cloud consorted with the masses of fleecy vapor,
several miles above the earth, a position being maintained, as nearly
as could be judged by instruments, over a patch of woodland where Mr.
Sharp had decided to land, as there were several large clearings in it.
Back and forth above the clouds, out of sight, the airship drifted
lazily to and fro; sometimes, when she got too far off her course,
being brought back to the right spot by means of the propellers.

It was tedious waiting, but they felt it was the only thing to do. Mr.
Sharp and Tom busied themselves making adjustments to several parts of
apparatus that needed it. Nothing could be done toward repairing the
hole in the aluminum container until a shop or shed was reached, but
the ship really did not need these repairs to enable it to be used.
Mr. Damon was fretful, and "blessed" so many things during the course
of the day that there seemed to be nothing left. Dinner and supper took
up some time, really good meals being served by Tom, who was
temporarily acting as cook. Then they anxiously waited for darkness,
when they could descend.

"I hope the moon isn't too bright," remarked Mr. Sharp, as he went
carefully over the motor once more, for he did not want it to balk
again. "If it shines too much it will discover us."

"But a little light would be a fine thing, and show us a good place to
land," argued Tom.

Fortune seemed to favor the adventurers. There was a hazy light from
the moon, which was covered by swiftly moving dark clouds, now and
then, a most effective screen for the airship, as its great, moving
shape, viewed from the earth, resembled nothing so much as one of the
clouds.

They made a good landing in a little forest glade, the craft, under the
skillful guidance of Mr. Sharp and Tom, coming down nicely.

"Now for a trip to town to notify the sheriff," said Mr. Sharp. "Tom, I
think you had better go alone. You can explain matters, and Mr. Damon
and I will remain here until you come back. I should say what you had
best do, would be to get the sheriff to help you locate the gang of
bank robbers. They're in this vicinity and he ought to be able, with
his deputies, to find them."

"I'll ask him," replied Tom, as he set off.

It was rather a lonely walk into the city, from the woods where the
airship had landed, but Tom did not mind it, and, reaching Shagmon, he
inquired his way to the home of the sheriff, for it was long after
office hours. He heard, as he walked along the streets, many persons
discussing the appearance of the airship that morning, and he was glad
they had planned to land after dark, for more than one citizen was
regretting that he had not had a chance to get the five thousand
dollars reward offered for the arrest of the passengers in the Red
Cloud.

Tom found the sheriff, Mr. Durkin by name, a genial personage. At the
mention of the airship the official grew somewhat excited.

"Are you one of the fellows that looted the bank?" he inquired, when
Tom told him how he and his friends had arrived at Shagmon.

The young inventor denied the impeachment, and told his story. He ended
up with a request for the sheriff's aid, at the same time asking if the
officer knew where such a gang as the Happy Harry one might be in
hiding.

"You've come just at the right time, young man," was the answer of
Sheriff Durkin, when he was assured of the honesty of Tom's statements.
"I've been on the point, for the last week, of raiding a camp of men,
who have settled at a disused summer resort about ten miles from here.
I think they're running a gambling game. But I haven't been able to get
any evidence, and every time I sent out a posse some one warns the men,
and we can find nothing wrong. I believe these men are the very ones
you want. If we could only get to them without their suspecting it, I
think I'd have them right."

"We can do that, Sheriff."

"How?"

"Go in our airship! You come with us, and we'll put you right over
their camp, where you can drop down on their heads."

"Good land, I never rode in an automobile even, let alone an airship!"
went on the officer. "I'd be scared out of my wits, and so would my
deputies."

"Send the deputies on ahead," suggested Tom.

The sheriff hesitated. Then he slapped his thigh with his big hand.

"By golly! I'll go with you!" he declared. "I'll try capturing criminals in
an airship for the first time in my life! Lead the way, young man!"

An hour later Sheriff Durkin was aboard the Red Cloud, and plans were
being talked of for the capture of the bank robbers, or at least for
raiding the camp where the men were supposed to be.




Chapter 23

On To The Camp


"Well, you sure have got a fine craft here," remarked Sheriff Durkin,
as he looked over the airship after Tom and his friends had told of
their voyage. "It will be quite up-to-date to raid a gang of bank
robbers in a flying machine, but I guess it will be the only way we can
catch those fellows. Now I'll go back to town, and the first thing in
the morning I'll round-up my posse and start it off. The men can
surround the camp, and lay quiet until we arrive in this ship. Then,
when we descend on the heads of the scoundrels, right out of the sky,
so to speak, my men can close in, and bag them all."

"That's a good plan," commented Mr. Sharp, "but are you sure these are
the men we want? It's pretty vague, I think, but of course the clue Tom
got is pretty slim; merely the name Shagmon."

"Well, this is Shagmon," went on the sheriff, "and, as I told your
young friend, I've been trying for some time to bag the men at the
summer camp. They number quite a few, and if they don't do anything
worse, they run a gambling game there. I'm pretty sure, if the bank
robbers are in this vicinity, they're in that camp. Of course all the
men there may not have been engaged in looting the vault, and they may
not all know of it, but it won't do any harm to round-up the whole
bunch."

After a tour of the craft, and waiting to take a little refreshment
with his new friends, the sheriff left, promising to come as early on
the morrow as possible.

"Let's go to bed," suggested Mr. Sharp, after a bit. "We've got hard
work ahead of us to-morrow."

They were up early, and, in the seclusion of the little glade in the
woods, Tom and Mr. Sharp went over every part of the airship.

The sheriff arrived about nine o'clock, and announced that he had
started off through the woods, to surround the camp, twenty-five men.

"They'll be there at noon," Mr. Durkin said, "and will close in when I
give the signal, which will be two shots fired. I heard just before I
came here that there are some new arrivals at the camp."

"Maybe those are the men I overheard talking in the office building,"
suggested Tom. "They probably came to get their share. Well, we must
swoop down on them before they have time to distribute the money."

"That's what!" agreed the county official. Mr. Durkin was even more
impressed by the airship in the daytime than he had been at night. He
examined every part, and when the time came to start, he was almost as
unconcerned as any of the three travelers who had covered many hundreds
of miles in the air.

"This is certainly great!" cried the sheriff, as the airship rose
swiftly under the influence of the powerful gas.

As the craft went higher and higher his enthusiasm grew.  He was not
the least afraid, but then Sheriff Durkin was accounted a nervy
individual under all circumstances.

"Lay her a little off to the left," the officer advised Tom who was at
the steering wheel. "The main camp is right over there. How long before
we will reach it?"

"We can get there in about fifteen minutes, if we run at top speed,"
answered the lad, his hand on the switch that controlled the motor.
"Shall we?"

"No use burning up the air. Besides, my men have hardly had time to
surround the camp. It's in deep woods. If I were you I'd get right over
it, and then rise up out of sight so they can't see you. Then, when
it's noon you can go down, I'll fire the signal and the fun will
commence--that is, fun for us, but not so much for those chaps, I
fancy," and the sheriff smiled grimly.

The sheriff's plan was voted a good one, and, accordingly, the ship,
after nearing a spot about over the camp, was sent a mile or two into
the air, hovering as nearly as possible over one spot.

Shortly before twelve, the sheriff having seen to the weapons he
brought with him, gave the signal to descend. Down shot the Red Cloud
dropping swiftly when the gas was allowed to escape from the red
container, and also urged toward the earth by the deflected rudder.

"Are you all ready?" cried the sheriff, looking at his watch.

"All ready," replied Mr. Sharp.

"Then here goes," went on the officer, drawing his revolver, and firing
two shots in quick succession.

Two shots from the woods below answered him. Faster dropped the Red
Cloud toward the camp of the criminals.




Chapter 24

The Raid


"Look for a good place to land!" cried Mr. Sharp to Tom. "Any small,
level place will do. Turn on the gas full power as soon as you feel the
first contact, and then shut it off so as to hold her down. Then jump
out and take a hand in the fight!"

"That's right," cried the sheriff. "Fight's the word! They're breaking
from cover now," he added, as he looked over the side of the cabin,
from one of the windows. "The rascals have taken the alarm!"

The airship was descending toward a little glade in the woods
surrounding the old picnic ground. Men, mostly of the tramp sort, could
be seen running to and fro.

"I hope my deputies close in promptly," murmured the sheriff. "There's
a bigger bunch there than I counted on."

From the appearance of the gang rushing about it seemed as if there
were at least fifty of them. Some of the fellows caught sight of the
airship, and, with yells, pointed upward.

Nearer and nearer to the earth settled the Red Cloud. The criminals in
the camp were running wildly about. Several squads of them darted
through the woods, only to come hurriedly back, where they called to
their companions.

"Ha! My men are evidently on the job!" exclaimed the sheriff. "They are
turning the rascals back!"

Some of the gang were so alarmed at the sight of the great airship
settling down on their camp, that they could only stand and stare at
it. Others were gathering sticks and stones, as if for resistance, and
some could be seen to have weapons. Off to one side was a small hut,
rather better than the rest of the tumbledown shacks in which the
tramps lived. Tom noticed this, and saw several men gathered about it.
One seemed familiar to the lad. He called the attention of Mr. Damon to
the fellow.

"Do you know him?" asked Tom eagerly.

"Bless my very existence! If it isn't Anson Morse! One of the gang!"
cried the eccentric man.

"That's what I thought," agreed Tom. "The bank robbers are here," he
added, to the sheriff.

"If we only recover the money we'll be doing well," remarked Mr. Sharp.

Suddenly there came a shout from the fringe of woods surrounding the
camp, and an instant later there burst from the bushes a number of men.

"My posse!" cried the sheriff. "We ought to be down now!"

The airship was a hundred feet above the ground, but Tom, opening wider
the gas outlet, sent the craft more quickly down. Then, just as it
touched the earth, he forced a mass of vapor into the container, making
the ship buoyant so as to reduce the shock.

An instant later the ship was stationary.

Out leaped the sheriff.

"Give it to 'em, men!" he shouted.

With a yell his men responded, and fired a volley in the air.

"Come on, Tom!" called Mr. Sharp. "We'll make for the hut where you saw
Morse."

"I'll come too! I'll come too!" cried Mr. Damon, rushing along as fast
as he could, a seltzer bottle in either hand.

Tom's chief interest was to reach the men he suspected were the bank
robbers. The lad dashed through the woods toward the hut near which he
had seen Morse. He and Mr. Sharp reached it about the same time. As
they came in front of it out dashed Happy Harry, the tramp. He was
followed by Morse and the man named Featherton. The latter carried a
black valise.

"Hey! Drop that!" shouted Mr. Sharp.

"Drop nothing!" yelled the man.

"Go on! Go on!" urged Morse. "Take to the woods! We'll deal with these
fellows!"

"Oh, you will, eh?" shouted Tom, and remembering his football days he
made a dive between Morse and Happy Harry for the man with the bag,
which he guessed contained the stolen money. The lad made a good
tackle, and grabbed Featherton about the legs. He went down in a heap,
with Tom on top. Our hero was feeling about for the valise, when he
felt a stunning blow on the back of his head. He turned over quickly to
see Morse in the act of delivering a second kick. Tom grew faint, and
dimly saw the leader of the gang reach down for the valise.

This gave our hero sudden energy. He was not going to lose everything,
when it was just within his grasp. Conquering, by a strong effort, his
feeling of dizziness, he scrambled to his feet, and made a grab for
Morse. The latter fended him off, but Tom came savagely back at him,
all his fighting blood up. The effects of the cowardly blow were
passing off.

The lad managed to get one hand on the handle of the bag.

"Let go!" cried Morse, and he dealt Tom a blow in the face. It
staggered the youth, but he held on grimly, and raised his left hand
and arm as a guard. At the same time he endeavored to twist the valise
loose from Morse's hold. The man raised his foot to kick Tom, but at
that moment there was a curious hissing sound, and a stream of frothy
liquid shot over the lad's head right into the face of the man,
blinding him.

"Ha! Take that! And more of it!" shouted Mr. Damon, and a second stream
of seltzer squirted into the face of Morse.

With a yell of rage he let go his hold of the satchel, and Tom
staggered back with it. The lad saw Mr. Damon rushing toward the now
disabled leader, playing both bottles of seltzer on him. Then, when all
the liquid was gone the eccentric man began to beat Morse over the head
and shoulders with the heavy bottles until the scoundrel begged for
mercy.

Tom was congratulating himself on his success in getting the bag when
Happy Harry, the tramp, rushed at him.

"I guess I'll take that!" he roared, and, wheeling Tom around, at the
same time striking him full in the face, the ugly man made a grab for
the valise.

His hand had hardly touched it before he went down like a log, the
sound of a powerful blow causing Tom to look up. He saw Mr. Sharp
standing over the prostrate tramp, who had been cleanly knocked out.

"Are you all right, Tom?" asked the balloonist.

"Yes--trifle dizzy, that's all--I've got the money!"

"Are you sure?"

Tom opened the valise. A glance was enough to show that it was stuffed
with bills.

Happy Harry showed signs of coming to, and Mr. Sharp, with a few turns
of a rope he had brought along, soon secured him. Morse was too
exhausted to fight more, for the seltzer entering his mouth and nose,
had deprived him of breath, and he fell an easy prisoner to Mr. Damon.

Morse was soon tied up. The other members of the Happy Harry gang had
escaped.

Meanwhile the sheriff and his men were having a fight with the crowd of
tramps, but as the posse was determined and the criminals mostly of the
class known as "hobos," the battle was not a very severe one.  Several
of the sheriff's men were slightly injured, however, and a few of the
tramps escaped.

"A most successful raid," commented the sheriff, when quiet was
restored, and a number of prisoners were lined up, all tied securely.
"Did you get the money?"

"Almost all of it," answered Tom, who, now that Morse and Happy Harry
were securely tied, had busied himself, with the aid of Mr. Sharp and
Mr. Damon, in counting the bills. "Only about two thousand dollars are
missing. I think the bank will be glad enough to charge that to profit
and loss."

"I guess so," added the sheriff. "I'm certainly much obliged to you for
the use of your airship. Otherwise the raid wouldn't have been so
successful. Well, now we'll get the prisoners to jail."

It was necessary to hire rigs from nearby farmers to accomplish this.
As for Morse and Happy Harry, they were placed in the airship, and,
under guard of the sheriff and two deputies, were taken to the county
seat. The criminals were too dazed over the rough treatment they had
received, and over their sudden capture, to notice the fact of riding
through the air to jail.

"Now for home!" cried Tom, when the prisoners had been disposed of.
"Home to clear our names and take this money to the bank!"

"And receive the reward," added Mr. Sharp, with a smile. "Don't forget
that!"

"Oh, yes, and I'll see that you get a share too, Mr. Durkin," went on
Tom. "Only for your aid we never would have gotten these men and the
money."

"Oh, I guess we're about even on that score," responded the official.
"I'm glad to break up that gang."

The next morning Tom and his friends started for home in the Red Cloud.

They took with them evidence as to the guilt of the two men--Morse and
Happy Harry. The men confessed that they and their pals had robbed the
bank of Shopton, the night before Tom and his friends sailed on their
trip. In fact that was the object for which the gang hung around
Shopton. After securing their booty they had gone to the camp of the
tramps at Shagmon, where they hid, hoping they would not be traced.
But the words Tom had overheard had been their undoing. The men who
arrived at the camp just before the raid were the same ones the young
inventor heard talking in the office building. They had come to get
their share of the loot, which Morse held, and with which he tried so
desperately to get away. Tom's injuries were not serious and did not
bother him after being treated by a physician.




Chapter 25

Andy Gets His Reward


Flying swiftly through the air the young inventor and his two
companions were soon within sight of Shopton. As they approached the
town from over the lake, and a patch of woods, they attracted no
attention until they were near home, and the craft settled down easily
in the yard of the Swift property.

That the aged inventor was glad to see his son back need not be said,
and Mrs. Baggert's welcome was scarcely less warm than that of Mr.
Swift. Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon were also made to feel that their
friends were glad to see them safe again.

"We must go at once and see Mr. Pendergast, the bank president,"
declared Mr. Swift. "We must take the money to him, and demand that he
withdraw the offer of reward for your arrest."

"Yes," agreed Tom. "I guess the reward will go to some one besides Andy
Foger."

There was considerable surprise on the part of the bank clerks when our
hero, and his friends, walked in, carrying a heavy black bag. But they
could only conjecture what was in the wind, for the party was
immediately closeted with the president.

Mr. Pendergast was so startled that he hardly knew what to say when
Tom, aided by Mr. Sharp, told his story. But the return of the money,
with documents from Sheriff Durkin, certifying as to the arrest of
Morse and Happy Harry, soon convinced him of the truth of the account.

"It's the most wonderful thing I ever heard," said the president.

"Well, what are you going to do about it?" asked Mr. Damon. "You have
accused Tom and myself of being thieves, and--"

"I apologize--I apologize most humbly!" exclaimed Mr. Pendergast. "I
also--"

"What about the reward?" went on Mr. Damon. "Bless my bank notes, I
don't want any of it, for I have enough, but I think Tom and Mr. Sharp
and the sheriff are entitled to it."

"Certainly," said the president, "certainly. It will be paid at once.
I will call a meeting of the directors. In fact they are all in the
bank now, save Mr. Foger, and I can reach him by telephone. If you will
just rest yourselves in that room there I will summon you before the
board, when it convenes, and be most happy to pay over the five
thousand dollars reward. It is the most wonderful thing I ever heard
of--most wonderful!"

In a room adjoining that of the president, Tom, his father and Mr.
Damon waited for the directors to meet. Mr. Foger could be heard
entering a little later.

"What's this I hear, Pendergast?" he cried, rubbing his hands. "The
bank robbers captured, eh? Well, that's good news. Of course we'll pay
the reward. I always knew my boy was a smart lad. Five thousand dollars
will be a tidy sum for him. Of course his chum, Sam Snedecker is
entitled to some, but not much. So they've caught Tom Swift and that
rascally Damon, eh? I always knew he was a scoundrel! Putting money in
here as a blind!"

Mr. Damon heard, and shook his fist.

"I'll make him suffer for that," he whispered.

"Tom Swift arrested, eh?" went on Mr. Foger. "I always knew he was a
bad egg. Who caught them? Where are they?"

"In the next room," replied Mr. Pendergast, who loved a joke almost as
well as did Tom. "They may come out now," added the president, opening
the door, and sending Ned Newton in to summon Tom, Mr. Swift and Mr.
Damon, who filed out before the board of directors.

"Gentlemen," began the president, "I have the pleasure of presenting to
you Mr. Thomas Swift, Mr. Barton Swift and Mr. Wakefield Damon. I also
have the honor to announce that Mr. Thomas Swift and Mr. Damon have
been instrumental in capturing the burglars who recently robbed our
bank, and I am happy to add that young Mr. Swift and Mr. Wakefeld Damon
have, this morning, brought to me all but a small part of the money
stolen from us. Which money they succeeded, after a desperate fight."

"A fight partly with seltzer bottles," interrupted Mr. Damon proudly.
"Don't forget them."

"Partly with seltzer bottles," conceded the president with a smile.
"After a fight they succeeded in getting the money back. Here it is,
and I now suggest that we pay the reward we promised."

"What? Reward? Pay them? The money back? Isn't my son to receive the
five thousand dollars for informing as to the identity of the
thief--isn't he?" demanded Mr. Foger, almost suffocating from his
astonishment at the unexpected announcement.

"Hardly," answered Mr. Pendergast dryly. "Your son's information
happened to be very wrong. The tools he saw Tom have in the bag were
airship tools, not burglar's. And the same gang that once robbed Mr.
Swift robbed our bank. Tom Swift captured them, and is entitled to the
reward. It will be necessary for us directors to make up the sum,
personally, and I, for one, am very glad to do so."

"So am I," came in a chorus from the others seated at the table.

"But--er--I understood that my son--" stammered Mr. Foger, who did not
at all relish having to see his son lose the reward.

"It was all a mistake about your son," commented Mr. Pendergast.
"Gentlemen, is it your desire that I write out a check for young Mr.
Swift?"

They all voted in the affirmative, even Mr. Foger being obliged to do
so, much against his wishes. He was a very much chagrined man, when the
directors' meeting broke up. Word was sent at once, by telegraph, to
all the cities where reward posters had been displayed, recalling the
offer, and stating that Tom Swift and Mr. Damon were cleared. Mr. Sharp
had never been really accused.

"Well, let's go home," suggested Tom when he had the
five-thousand-dollar check in his pocket.

"I want another ride in the Red Cloud as soon as it's repaired."

"So do I!" declared Mr. Damon.

The eccentric man and Mr. Swift walked on ahead, and Tom strolled down
toward the dock, for he thought he would take a short trip in his
motor-boat.

He was near the lake, not having met many persons, when he saw a figure
running up from the water. He knew who it was in an instant Andy Foger.
As for the bully, at the sight of Tom he hesitated, than came boldly
on. Evidently he had not heard of our hero's arrival.

"Ha!" exclaimed the red-haired lad, "I've been looking for you. The
police want you, Tom Swift."

"Oh, do they?" asked the young inventor gently.

"Yes; for robbery. I'm going to get the reward, too. You thought you
were smart, but I saw those burglar tools in your valise. I sent the
police after you. So you've come back, eh? I'm going to tell Chief
Simonson. You wait."

"Yes," answered Tom, "I'll wait. So the police want me, do they?"

"That's what they do," snarled Andy. "I told you I'd get even with you,
and I've done it."

"Well," burst out Tom, unable to longer contain himself, as he thought
of all he had suffered at the hands of the red-haired bully, "I said
I'd get even with you, but I haven't done it yet. I'm going to now.
Take off your coat, Andy. You and I are going to have a little
argument."

"Don't you dare lay a finger on me!" blustered the squint-eyed one.

Tom peeled off his coat. Andy, who saw that he could not escape, rushed
forward, and dealt the young inventor a blow on the chest. That was all
Tom wanted, and the next instant he went at Andy hammer and tongs. The
bully tried to fight, but he had no chance with his antagonist, who was
righteously angry, and who made every blow tell.  It was a
sorry-looking Andy Foger who begged for mercy a little later.

Tom had no desire to administer more than a deserved reward to the
bully, but perhaps he did add a little for interest. At any rate Andy
thought so.

"You just wait!" he cried, as he limped off. "I'll make you sorry for
this."

"Oh, don't go to any trouble on my account," said Tom gently, as he put
on his coat. But Andy did go to considerable trouble to be revenged on
the young inventor, and whether he succeeded or not you may learn by
reading the fourth book of this series, to be called "Tom Swift and His
Submarine Boat; or, Under the Ocean for Sunken Treasure," in which I
shall relate the particulars of a voyage that was marvelous in the
extreme.

Tom reached home in a very pleasant frame of mind that afternoon.
Things had turned out much better than he thought they would. A few
weeks later the two bank robbers, who were found guilty, were sentenced
to long terms, but their companions were not captured. Tom sent Sheriff
Durkin a share of the reward, and the lad invested his own share in
bank stock, after giving some to Mr. Sharp. Mr. Damon refused to accept
any. As for Mr. Swift, once he saw matters straightened out, and his
son safe, he resumed his work on his prize submarine boat, his son
helping him.

As for Tom, he alternated his spare time between trips in the airship
and his motor-boat, and frequently a certain young lady from the
Rocksmond Seminary was his companion. I think you know her name by this
time. Now, for a while, we will take leave of Tom Swift and his
friends, trusting to meet them again.

End 



TOM SWIFT AND HIS SUBMARINE BOAT

or

Under the Ocean for Sunken Treasure


by

VICTOR APPLETON




CONTENTS

     I  News of a Treasure Wreck
    II  Finishing the Submarine
   III  Mr. Berg Is Astonished
    IV  Tom Is Imprisoned
     V  Mr. Berg Is Suspicious
    VI  Turning the Tables
   VII  Mr. Damon Will Go
  VIII  Another Treasure Expedition
    IX  Captain Weston's Advent
     X  Trial of the Submarine
    XI  On the Ocean Bed
   XII  For a Breath of Air
  XIII  Off for the Treasure
   XIV  In the Diving Suits
    XV  At the Tropical Island
   XVI  "We'll Race You For It!"
  XVII  The Race
 XVIII  The Electric Gun
   XIX  Captured
    XX  Doomed to Death
   XXI  The Escape
  XXII  At the Wreck
 XXIII  Attacked by Sharks
  XXIV  Ramming the Wreck
   XXV  Home with the Gold




TOM SWIFT AND HIS SUBMARINE BOAT




Chapter One

News of a Treasure Wreck


There was a rushing, whizzing, throbbing noise in the air.  A great
body, like that of some immense bird, sailed along, casting a grotesque
shadow on the ground below.  An elderly man, who was seated on the
porch of a large house, started to his feet in alarm.

"Gracious goodness! What was that, Mrs. Baggert?" he called to a
motherly-looking woman who stood in the doorway.  "What happened?"

"Nothing much, Mr. Swift," was the calm reply "I think that was Tom and
Mr. Sharp in their airship, that's all. I didn't see it, but the noise
sounded like that of the Red Cloud."

"Of course! To be sure!" exclaimed Mr. Barton Swift, the well-known
inventor, as he started down the path in order to get a good view of
the air, unobstructed by the trees. "Yes, there they are," he added.
"That's the airship, but I didn't expect them back so soon. They must
have made good time from Shopton. I wonder if anything can be the
matter that they hurried so?"

He gazed aloft toward where a queerly-shaped machine was circling about
nearly five hundred feet in the air, for the craft, after swooping down
close to the house, had ascended and was now hovering just above the
line of breakers that marked the New Jersey seacoast, where Mr. Swift
had taken up a temporary residence.

"Don't begin worrying, Mr. Swift," advised Mrs. Baggert, the
housekeeper. "You've got too much to do, if you get that new boat done,
to worry."

"That's so. I must not worry. But I wish Tom and Mr. Sharp would land,
for I want to talk to them."

As if the occupants of the airship had heard the words of the aged
inventor, they headed their craft toward earth. The combined aeroplane
and dirigible balloon, a most wonderful traveler of the air, swung
around, and then, with the deflection rudders slanted downward, came on
with a rush.  When near the landing place, just at the side of the
house, the motor was stopped, and the gas, with a hissing noise, rushed
into the red aluminum container. This immediately made the ship more
buoyant and it landed almost as gently as a feather.

No sooner had the wheels which formed the lower part of the craft
touched the ground than there leaped from the cabin of the Red Cloud a
young man.

"Well, dad!" he exclaimed. "Here we are again, safe and sound. Made a
record, too. Touched ninety miles an hour at times--didn't we, Mr.
Sharp?"

"That's what," agreed a tall, thin, dark-complexioned man, who followed
Tom Swift more leisurely in his exit from the cabin. Mr. Sharp, a
veteran aeronaut, stopped to fasten guy ropes from the airship to
strong stakes driven into the ground.

"And we'd have done better, only we struck a hard wind against us about
two miles up in the air, which delayed us," went on Tom. "Did you hear
us coming, dad?"

"Yes, and it startled him," put in Mrs. Baggert. "I guess he wasn't
expecting you."

"Oh, well, I shouldn't have been so alarmed, only I was thinking deeply
about a certain change I am going to make in the submarine, Tom. I was
day-dreaming, I think, when your ship whizzed through the air. But tell
me, did you find everything all right at Shopton? No signs of any of
those scoundrels of the Happy Harry gang having been around?" and Mr.
Swift looked anxiously at his son.

"Not a sign, dad," replied Tom quickly. "Everything was all right. We
brought the things you wanted. They're in the airship. Oh, but it was a
fine trip. I'd like to take another right out to sea."

"Not now, Tom," said his father. "I want you to help me.  And I need
Mr. Sharp's help, too. Get the things out of the car, and we'll go to
the shop."

"First I think we'd better put the airship away," advised Mr. Sharp. "I
don't just like the looks of the weather, and, besides, if we leave the
ship exposed we'll be sure to have a crowd around sooner or later, and
we don't want that."

"No, indeed," remarked the aged inventor hastily. "I don't want people
prying around the submarine shed. By all means put the airship away,
and then come into the shop."

In spite of its great size the aeroplane was easily wheeled along by
Tom and Mr. Sharp, for the gas in the container made it so buoyant that
it barely touched the earth. A little more of the powerful vapor and
the Red Cloud would have risen by itself. In a few minutes the
wonderful craft, of which my readers have been told in detail in a
previous volume, was safely housed in a large tent, which was securely
fastened.

Mr. Sharp and Tom, carrying some bundles which they had taken from the
car, or cabin, of the craft, went toward a large shed, which adjoined
the house that Mr. Swift had hired for the season at the seashore. They
found the lad's father standing before a great shape, which loomed up
dimly in the semi-darkness of the building. It was like an immense
cylinder, pointed at either end, and here and there were openings,
covered with thick glass, like immense, bulging eyes. From the number
of tools and machinery all about the place, and from the appearance of
the great cylinder itself, it was easy to see that it was only partly
completed.

"Well, how goes it, dad?" asked the youth, as he deposited his bundle
on a bench. "Do you think you can make it work?"

"I think so, Tom. The positive and negative plates are giving me
considerable trouble, though. But I guess we can solve the problem. Did
you bring me the galvanometer?"

"Yes, and all the other things," and the young inventor proceeded to
take the articles from the bundles he carried.

Mr. Swift looked them over carefully, while Tom walked about examining
the submarine, for such was the queer craft that was contained in the
shed.  He noted that some progress had been made on it since he had
left the seacoast several days before to make a trip to Shopton, in New
York State, where the Swift home was located, after some tools and
apparatus that his father wanted to obtain from his workshop there.

"You and Mr. Jackson have put on several new plates," observed the lad
after a pause.

"Yes," admitted his father. "Garret and I weren't idle, were we,
Garret?" and he nodded to the aged engineer, who had been in his employ
for many years.

"No; and I guess we'll soon have her in the water, Tom, now that you
and Mr. Sharp are here to help us," replied Garret Jackson.

"We ought to have Mr. Damon here to bless the submarine and his liver
and collar buttons a few times," put in Mr. Sharp, who brought in
another bundle. He referred to an eccentric individual who had recently
made an airship voyage with himself and Tom, Mr. Damon's peculiarity
being to use continually such expressions as: "Bless my soul! Bless my
liver!"

"Well, I'll be glad when we can make a trial trip," went on Tom. "I've
traveled pretty fast on land with my motorcycle, and we certainly have
hummed through the air. Now I want to see how it feels to scoot along
under water."

"Well, if everything goes well we'll be in position to make a trial
trip inside of a month," remarked the aged inventor. "Look here, Mr.
Sharp, I made a change in the steering gear, which I'd like you and Tom
to consider."

The three walked around to the rear of the odd-looking structure, if an
object shaped like a cigar can be said to have a front and rear, and
the inventor, his son, and the aeronaut were soon deep in a discussion
of the technicalities connected with under-water navigation.

A little later they went into the house, in response to a summons from
the supper bell, vigorously rung by Mrs. Baggert. She was not fond of
waiting with meals, and even the most serious problem of mechanics was,
in her estimation, as nothing compared with having the soup get cold,
or the possibility of not having the meat done to a turn.

The meal was interspersed with remarks about the recent airship flight
of Tom and Mr. Sharp, and discussions about the new submarine. This
talk went on even after the table was cleared off and the three had
adjourned to the sitting-room. There Mr. Swift brought out pencil and
paper, and soon he and Mr. Sharp were engrossed in calculating the
pressure per square inch of sea water at a depth of three miles.

"Do you intend to go as deep as that?" asked Tom, looking up from a
paper he was reading.

"Possibly," replied his father; and his son resumed his perusal of the
sheet.

"Now," went on the inventor to the aeronaut, "I have another plan. In
addition to the positive and negative plates which will form our motive
power, I am going to install forward and aft propellers, to use in case
of accident."

"I say, dad! Did you see this?" suddenly exclaimed Tom, getting up from
his chair, and holding his finger on a certain place in the page of the
paper.

"Did I see what?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Why, this account of the sinking of the treasure ship."

"Treasure ship? No. Where?"

"Listen," went on Tom. "I'll read it: 'Further advices from Montevideo,
Uruguay, South America, state that all hope has been given up of
recovering the steamship Boldero, which foundered and went down off
that coast in the recent gale.  Not only has all hope been abandoned of
raising the vessel, but it is feared that no part of the three hundred
thousand dollars in gold bullion which she carried will ever be
recovered. Expert divers who were taken to the scene of the wreck state
that the depth of water, and the many currents existing there, due to a
submerged shoal, preclude any possibility of getting at the hull. The
bullion, it is believed, was to have been used to further the interests
of a certain revolutionary faction, but it seems likely that they will
have to look elsewhere for the sinews of war.  Besides the bullion the
ship also carried several cases of rifles, it is stated, and other
valuable cargo. The crew and what few passengers the Boldero carried
were, contrary to the first reports, all saved by taking to the boats.
It appears that some of the ship's plates were sprung by the stress in
which she labored in a storm, and she filled and sank gradually.'
There! what do you think of that, dad?" cried Tom as he finished.

"What do I think of it? Why, I think it's too bad for the
revolutionists, Tom, of course."

"No; I mean about the treasure being still on board the ship. What
about that?"

"Well, it's likely to stay there, if the divers can't get at it. Now,
Mr. Sharp, about the propellers--"

"Wait, dad!" cried Tom earnestly.

"Why, Tom, what's the matter?" asked Mr. Swift in some surprise.

"How soon before we can finish our submarine?" went on Tom, not
answering the question.

"About a month. Why?"

"Why? Dad, why can't we have a try for that treasure? It ought to be
comparatively easy to find that sunken ship off the coast of Uruguay.
In our submarine we can get close up to it, and in the new diving suits
you invented we can get at that gold bullion. Three hundred thousand
dollars! Think of it, dad! Three hundred thousand dollars! We could
easily claim all of it, since the owners have abandoned it, but we
would be satisfied with half. Let's hurry up, finish the submarine, and
have a try for it."

"But, Tom, you forget that I am to enter my new ship in the trials for
the prize offered by the United States Government."

"How much is the prize if you win it?" asked Tom.

"Fifty thousand dollars."

"Well, here's a chance to make three times that much at least, and
maybe more. Dad, let the Government prize go, and try for the treasure.
Will you?"

Tom looked eagerly at his father, his eyes shining with anticipation.
Mr. Swift was not a quick thinker, but the idea his son had proposed
made an impression on him. He reached out his hand for the paper in
which the young inventor had seen the account of the sunken treasure.
Slowly he read it through. Then he passed it to Mr. Sharp.

"What do you think of it?" he asked of the aeronaut.

"There's a possibility," remarked the balloonist "We might try for it.
We can easily go three miles down, and it doesn't lie as deeply as
that, if this account is true. Yes, we might try for it. But we'd have
to omit the Government contests."

"Will you, dad?" asked Tom again.

Mr. Swift considered a moment longer.

"Yes, Tom, I will," he finally decided. "Going after the treasure will
be likely to afford us a better test of the submarine than would any
Government tests. We'll try to locate the sunken Boldero."

"Hurrah!" cried the lad, taking the paper from Mr. Sharp and waving it
in the air. "That's the stuff!  Now for a search for the submarine
treasure!"




Chapter Two

Finishing the Submarine


"What's the matter?" cried Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper, hurrying in
from the kitchen, where she was washing the dishes. "Have you seen some
of those scoundrels who robbed you, Mr. Swift? If you have, the police
down here ought to--"

"No, it's nothing like that," explained Mr. Swift. "Tom has merely
discovered in the paper an account of a sunken treasure ship, and he
wants us to go after it, down under the ocean."

"Oh, dear! Some more of Captain Kidd's hidden hoard, I suppose?"
ventured the housekeeper. "Don't you bother with it, Mr. Swift. I had a
cousin once, and he got set in the notion that he knew where that
pirate's treasure was. He spent all the money he had and all he could
borrow digging for it, and he never found a penny. Don't waste your
time on such foolishness. It's bad enough to be building airships and
submarines without going after treasure."  Mrs. Baggert spoke with the
freedom of an old friend rather than a hired housekeeper, but she had
been in the family ever since Tom's mother died, when he was a baby,
and she had many privileges.

"Oh, this isn't any of Kidd's treasure," Tom assured her.  "If we get
it, Mrs. Baggert, I'll buy you a diamond ring."

"Humph!" she exclaimed, as Tom began to hug her in boyish fashion. "I
guess I'll have to buy all the diamond rings I want, if I have to
depend on your treasure for them," and she went back to the kitchen.

"Well," went on Mr. Swift after a pause, "if we are going into the
treasure-hunting business, Tom, we'll have to get right to work. In the
first place, we must find out more about this ship, and just where it
was sunk."

"I can do that part," said Mr. Sharp. "I know some sea captains, and
they can put me on the track of locating the exact spot. In fact, it
might not be a bad idea to take an expert navigator with us. I can
manage in the air all right, but I confess that working out a location
under water is beyond me."

"Yes, an old sea captain wouldn't be a bad idea, by any means,"
conceded Mr. Swift. "Well, if you'll attend to that detail, Mr. Sharp,
Tom, Mr. Jackson and I will finish the submarine. Most of the work is
done, however, and it only remains to install the engine and motors.
Now, in regard to the negative and positive electric plates, I'd like
your opinion, Tom."

For Tom Swift was an inventor, second in ability only to his father,
and his advice was often sought by his parent on matters of electrical
construction, for the lad had made a specialty of that branch of
science.

While father and son were deep in a discussion of the apparatus of the
submarine, there will be an opportunity to make the reader a little
better acquainted with them. Those of you who have read the previous
volumes of this series do not need to be told who Tom Swift is. Others,
however, may be glad to have a proper introduction to him.

Tom Swift lived with his father, Barton Swift, in the village of
Shopton, New York. The Swift home was on the outskirts of the town, and
the large house was surrounded by a number of machine shops, in which
father and son, aided by Garret Jackson, the engineer, did their
experimental and constructive work. Their house was not far from Lake
Carlopa, a fairly large body of water, on which Tom often speeded his
motor-boat.

In the first volume of this series, entitled "Tom Swift and His
Motor-Cycle," it was told how he became acquainted with Mr. Wakefield
Damon, who suffered an accident while riding one of the speedy
machines. The accident disgusted Mr. Damon with motor-cycles, and Tom
secured it for a low price. He had many adventures on it, chief among
which was being knocked senseless and robbed of a valuable patent model
belonging to his father, which he was taking to Albany. The attack was
committed by a gang known as the Happy Harry gang, who were acting at
the instigation of a syndicate of rich men, who wanted to secure
control of a certain patent turbine engine which Mr. Swift had invented.

Tom set out in pursuit of the thieves, after recovering from their
attack, and had a strenuous time before he located them.

In the second volume, entitled "Tom Swift and His Motor-Boat," there
was related our hero's adventures in a fine craft which was recovered
from the thieves and sold at auction. There was a mystery connected
with the boat, and for a long time Tom could not solve it. He was
aided, however, by his chum, Ned Newton, who worked in the Shopton
Bank, and also by Mr. Damon and Eradicate Sampson, an aged colored
whitewasher, who formed quite an attachment for Tom.

In his motor-boat Tom had more than one race with Andy Foger, a rich
lad of Shopton, who was a sort of bully. He had red hair and squinty
eyes, and was as mean in character as he was in looks. He and his
cronies, Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey, made trouble for Tom, chiefly
because Tom managed to beat Andy twice in boat races.

It was while in his motor-boat, Arrow, that Tom formed the acquaintance
of John Sharp, a veteran balloonist. While coming down Lake Carlopa on
the way to the Swift home, which had been entered by thieves, Tom, his
father and Ned Newton, saw a balloon on fire over the lake. Hanging
from a trapeze on it was Mr. Sharp, who had made an ascension from a
fair ground. By hard work on the part of Tom and his friends the
aeronaut was saved, and took up his residence with the Swifts.

His advent was most auspicious, for Tom and his father were then
engaged in perfecting an airship, and Mr. Sharp was able to lend them
his skill, so that the craft was soon constructed.

In the third volume, called "Tom Swift and His Airship," there was set
down the doings of the young inventor, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon on a
trip above the clouds. They undertook it merely for pleasure, but they
encountered considerable danger, before they completed it, for they
nearly fell into a blazing forest once, and were later fired at by a
crowd of excited people. This last act was to effect their capture, for
they were taken for a gang of bank robbers, and this was due directly
to Andy Foger.

The morning after Tom and his friends started on their trip in the air,
the Shopton Bank was found to have been looted of seventy-five thousand
dollars. Andy Foger at once told the police that Tom Swift had taken
the money, and when asked how he knew this, he said he had seen Tom
hanging around the bank the night before the vault was burst open, and
that the young inventor had some burglar tools in his possession.
Warrants were at once sworn out for Tom and Mr. Damon, who was also
accused of being one of the robbers, and a reward of five thousand
dollars was offered.

Tom, Mr. Damon and Mr. Sharp sailed on, all unaware of this, and unable
to account for being fired upon, until they accidentally read in the
paper an account of their supposed misdeeds. They lost no time in
starting back home, and on the way got on the track of the real bank
robbers, who were members of the Happy Harry gang.

How the robbers were captured in an exciting raid, how Tom recovered
most of the stolen money, and how he gave Andy Foger a deserved
thrashing for giving a false clue was told of, and there was an account
of a race in which the Red Cloud (as the airship was called) took part,
as well as details of how Tom and his friends secured the reward, which
Andy Foger hoped to collect.

Those of you who care to know how the Red Cloud was constructed, and
how she behaved in the air, even during accidents and when struck by
lightning, may learn by reading the third volume, for the airship was
one of the most successful ever constructed.

When the craft was finished, and the navigators were ready to start on
their first long trip, Mr. Swift was asked to go with them. He
declined, but would not tell why, until Tom, pressing him for an
answer, learned that his father was planning a submarine boat, which he
hoped to enter in some trials for Government prizes. Mr. Swift remained
at home to work on this submarine, while his son and Mr. Sharp were
sailing above the clouds.

On their return, however, and after the bank mystery had been cleared
up, Tom and Mr. Sharp, aided Mr. Swift in completing the submarine,
until, when the present story opens, it needed but little additional
work to make the craft ready for the water.

Of course it had to be built near the sea, as it would have been
impossible to transport it overland from Shopton.  So, before the keel
was laid, Mr. Swift rented a large cottage at a seaside place on the
New Jersey coast and there, after erecting a large shed, the work on
the Advance, as the under-water ship was called, was begun.

It was soon to be launched in a large creek that extended in from the
ocean and had plenty of water at high tide. Tom and Mr. Sharp made
several trips back and forth from Shopton in their airship, to see that
all was safe at home and occasionally to get needed tools and supplies
from the shops, for not all the apparatus could be moved from Shopton
to the coast.

It was when returning from one of these trips that Tom brought with him
the paper containing an account of the wreck of the Boldero and the
sinking of the treasure she carried.

Until late that night the three fortune-hunters discussed various
matters.

"We'll hurry work on the ship," said Mr. Swift at length.  "Tom, I
wonder if your friend, Mr. Damon, would care to try how it seems under
water? He stood the air trip fairly well."

"I'll write and ask him," answered the lad. "I'm sure he'll go."

Securing, a few days later, the assistance of two mechanics, whom he
knew he could trust, for as yet the construction of the Advance was a
secret, Mr. Swift prepared to rush work on the submarine, and for the
next three weeks there were busy times in the shed next to the seaside
cottage. So busy, in fact, were Tom and Mr. Sharp, that they only found
opportunity for one trip in the airship, and that was to get some
supplies from the shops at home.

"Well," remarked Mr. Swift one night, at the close of a hard day's
work, "another week will see our craft completed.  Then we will put it
in the water and see how it floats, and whether it submerges as I hope
it does. But come on, Tom. I want to lock up. I'm very tired to-night."

"All right, dad," answered the young inventor coming from the darkened
rear of the shop. "I just want to--"

He paused suddenly, and appeared to be listening. Then he moved softly
back to where he had come from.

"What's the matter?" asked his father in a whisper.  "What's up, Tom?"

The lad did not answer Mr. Swift, with a worried look on his face,
followed his son. Mr. Sharp stood in the door of the shop.

"I thought I heard some one moving around back here," went on Tom
quietly.

"Some one in this shop!" exclaimed the aged inventor excitedly. "Some
one trying to steal my ideas again! Mr. Sharp, come here! Bring that
rifle! We'll teach these scoundrels a lesson!"

Tom quickly darted back to the extreme rear of the building. There was
a scuffle, and the next minute Tom cried out:

"What are you doing here?"

"Ha! I beg your pardon," replied a voice. "I am looking for Mr. Barton
Swift."

"My father," remarked Tom. "But that's a queer place to look for him.
He's up front. Father, here's a man who wishes to see you," he called.

"Yes, I strolled in, and seeing no one about I went to the rear of the
place," the voice went on. "I hope I haven't transgressed."

"We were busy on the other side of the shop, I guess," replied Tom, and
he looked suspiciously at the man who emerged from the darkness into
the light from a window. "I beg your pardon for grabbing you the way I
did," went on the lad, "but I thought you were one of a gang of men
we've been having trouble with."

"Oh, that's all right," continued the man easily. "I know Mr. Swift,
and I think he will remember me. Ah, Mr. Swift, how do you do?" he
added quickly, catching sight of Tom's father, who, with Mr. Sharp, was
coming to meet the lad.

"Addison Berg!" exclaimed the aged inventor as he saw the man's face
more plainly. "What are you doing here?"

"I came to see you," replied the man. "May I have a talk with you
privately?"

"I--I suppose so," assented Mr. Swift nervously. "Come into the house."

Mr. Berg left Tom's side and advanced to where Mr. Swift was standing.
Together the two emerged from the now fast darkening shop and went
toward the house.

"Who is he?" asked Mr. Sharp of the young inventor in a whisper.

"I don't know," replied the lad; "but, whoever he is, dad seems afraid
of him. I'm going to keep my eyes open."




Chapter Three

Mr. Berg is Astonished


Following his father and the stranger whom the aged inventor had
addressed as Mr. Berg, Tom and Mr. Sharp entered the house, the lad
having first made sure that Garret Jackson was on guard in the shop
that contained the submarine.

"Now," said Mr. Swift to the newcomer, "I am at your service. What is
it you wish?"

"In the first place, let me apologize for having startled you and your
friends," began the man. "I had no idea of sneaking into your workshop,
but I had just arrived here, and seeing the doors open I went in. I
heard no one about, and I wandered to the back of the place. There I
happened to stumble over a board--"

"And I heard you," interrupted Tom.

"Is this one of your employees?" asked Mr. Berg in rather frigid tones.

"That is my son," replied Mr. Swift.

"Oh, I beg your pardon." The man's manner changed quickly.  "Well, I
guess you did hear me, young man. I didn't intend to bark my shins the
way I did, either. You must have taken me for a burglar or a sneak
thief."

"I have been very much bothered by a gang of unscrupulous men," said
Mr. Swift, "and I suppose Tom thought it was some of them sneaking
around again."

"That's what I did," added the lad. "I wasn't going to have any one
steal the secret of the submarine if I could help it."

"Quite right! Quite right!" exclaimed Mr. Berg. "But my purpose was an
open one. As you know, Mr. Swift, I represent the firm of Bentley &
Eagert, builders of submarine boats and torpedoes. They heard that you
were constructing a craft to take part in the competitive prize tests
of the United States Government, and they asked me to come and see you
to learn when your ship would be ready. Ours is completed, but we
recognize that it will be for the best interests of all concerned if
there are a number of contestants, and my firm did not want to send in
their entry until they knew that you were about finished with your
ship. How about it? Are you ready to compete?"

"Yes," said Mr. Swift slowly. "We are about ready. My craft needs a few
finishing touches, and then it will be ready to launch."

"Then we may expect a good contest on your part," suggested Mr. Berg.

"Well," began the aged inventor, "I don't know about that."

"What's that?" exclaimed Mr. Berg.

"I said I wasn't quite sure that we would compete," went on Mr. Swift.
"You see, when I first got this idea for a submarine boat I had it in
mind to try for the Government prize of fifty thousand dollars."

"That's what we want, too," interrupted Mr. Berg with a smile.

"But," went on Tom's father, "since then certain matters have come up,
and I think, on the whole, that we'll not compete for the prize after
all."

"Not compete for the prize?" almost shouted the agent for Bentley &
Eagert. "Why, the idea! You ought to compete. It is good for the trade.
We think we have a very fine craft, and probably we would beat you in
the tests, but--"

"I wouldn't be too sure of that," put in Tom. "You have only seen the
outside of our boat. The inside is better yet."

"Ah, I have no doubt of that," spoke Mr. Berg, "but we have been at the
business longer than you have, and have had more experience. Still we
welcome competition. But I am very much surprised that you are not
going to compete for the prize, Mr. Swift. Very much surprised, indeed!
You see, I came down from Philadelphia to arrange so that we could both
enter our ships at the same time. I understand there is another firm of
submarine boat builders who are going to try for the prize, and I want
to arrange a date that will be satisfactory to all. I am greatly
astonished that you are not going to compete."

"Well, we were going to," said Mr. Swift, "only we have changed our
minds, that's all. My son and I have other plans."

"May I ask what they are?" questioned Mr. Berg.

"You may," exclaimed Tom quickly; "but I don't believe we can tell you.
They're a secret," he added more cordially.

"Oh, I see," retorted Mr. Berg. "Well, of course I don't wish to
penetrate any of your secrets, but I hoped we could contest together
for the Government prize. It is worth trying for I assure you--fifty
thousand dollars. Besides, there is the possibility of selling a number
of submarines to the United States. It's a fine prize."

"But the one we are after is a bigger one," cried Tom impetuously, and
the moment he had spoken he wished he could recall the words.

"Eh? What's that?" exclaimed Mr. Berg. "You don't mean to say another
government has offered a larger prize? If I had known that I would not
have let my firm enter into the competition for the bonus offered by
the United States.  Please tell me."

"I'm sorry," went on Tom more soberly. "I shouldn't have spoken. Mr.
Berg, the plans of my father and myself are such that we can't reveal
them now. We are going to try for a prize, but not in competition with
you. It's an entirely different matter."

"Well, I guess you'll find that the firm of Bentley & Eagert are
capable of trying for any prizes that are offered," boasted the agent.
"We may be competitors yet."

"I don't believe so," replied Mr. Swift.

"We may," repeated Mr. Berg. "And if we do, please remember that we
will show no mercy. Our boats are the best."

"And may the best boat win," interjected Mr. Sharp.  "That's all we
ask. A fair field and no favors."

"Of course," spoke the agent coldly. "Is this another son of yours?" he
asked.

"No but a good friend," replied the aged inventor. "No, Mr. Berg, we
won't compete this time. You may tell your firm so."

"Very good," was the other's stiff reply. "Then I will bid you good
night. We shall carry off the Government prize, but permit me to add
that I am very much astonished, very much indeed, that you do not try
for the prize. From what I have seen of your submarine you have a very
good one, almost as good, in some respects, as ours.  I bid you good
night," and with a bow the man left the room and hurried away from the
house.




Chapter Four

Tom is Imprisoned


"Well, I must say he's a cool one," remarked Tom, as the echoes of Mr.
Berg's steps died away. "The idea of thinking his boat better than
ours! I don't like that man, dad. I'm suspicious of him. Do you think
he came here to steal some of our ideas?"

"No, I hardly believe so, my son. But how did you discover him?"

"Just as you saw, dad. I heard a noise and went back there to
investigate. I found him sneaking around, looking at the electric
propeller plates. I went to grab him just as he stumbled over a board.
At first I thought it was one of the old gang. I'm almost sure he was
trying to discover something."

"No, Tom. The firm he works for are good business men, and they would
not countenance anything like that. They are heartless competitors,
however, and if they saw a legitimate chance to get ahead of me and
take advantage, they would do it. But they would not sneak in to steal
my ideas. I feel sure of that. Besides, they have a certain type of
submarine which they think is the best ever invented, and they would
hardly change at this late day. They feel sure of winning the
Government prize, and I'm just as glad we're not going to have a
contest."

"Do you think our boat is better than theirs?"

"Much better, in many respects."

"I don't like that man Berg, though," went on Tom.

"Nor do I," added his father. "There is something strange about him.
He was very anxious that I should compete.  Probably he thought his
firm's boat would go so far ahead of ours that they would get an extra
bonus. But I'm glad he didn't see our new method of propulsion. That is
the principal improvement in the Advance over other types of
submarines. Well, another week and we will be ready for the test."

"Have you known Mr. Berg long, dad?"

"Not very. I met him in Washington when I was in the patent office. He
was taking out papers on a submarine for his firm at the same time I
got mine for the Advance. It is rather curious that he should come all
the way here from Philadelphia, merely to see if I was going to
compete. There is something strange about it, something that I can't
understand."

The time was to come when Mr. Swift and his son were to get at the
bottom of Mr. Berg's reasons, and they learned to their sorrow that he
had penetrated some of their secrets.

Before going to bed that night Tom and Mr. Sharp paid a visit to the
shed where the submarine was resting on the ways, ready for launching.
They found Mr. Jackson on guard and the engineer said that no one had
been around. Nor was anything found disturbed.

"It certainly is a great machine," remarked the lad as he looked up at
the cigar-shaped bulk towering over his head.  "Dad has outdone himself
this trip."

"It looks all right," commented Mr. Sharp. "Whether it will work is
another question."

"Yes, we can't tell until it's in the water," conceded Tom. "But I
hope it does. Dad has spent much time and money on it."

The Advance was, as her name indicated, much in advance of previous
submarines. There was not so much difference in outward construction as
there was in the means of propulsion and in the manner in which the
interior and the machinery were arranged.

The submarine planned by Mr. Swift and Tom jointly, and constructed by
them, with the aid of Mr. Sharp and Mr. Jackson, was shaped like a
Cigar, over one hundred feet long and twenty feet in diameter at the
thickest part. It was divided into many compartments, all water-tight,
so that if one or even three were flooded the ship would still be
useable.

Buoyancy was provided for by having several tanks for the introduction
of compressed air, and there was an emergency arrangement so that a
collapsible aluminum container could be distended and filled with a
powerful gas. This was to be used if, by any means, the ship was
disabled on the bottom of the ocean. The container could be expanded
and filled, and would send the Advance to the surface.

Another peculiar feature was that the engine-room, dynamos and other
apparatus were all contained amidships. This gave stability to the
craft, and also enabled the same engine to operate both shafts and
propellers, as well as both the negative forward electrical plates, and
the positive rear ones.

These plates were a new idea in submarine construction, and were the
outcome of an idea of Mr. Swift, with some suggestions from his son.

The aged inventor did not want to depend on the usual screw propellers
for his craft, nor did he want to use a jet of compressed air, shooting
out from a rear tube, nor yet a jet of water, by means of which the
creature called the squid shoots himself along. Mr. Swift planned to
send the Advance along under water by means of electricity.

Certain peculiar plates were built at the forward and aft blunt noses
of the submarine. Into the forward plate a negative charge of
electricity was sent, and into the one at the rear a positive charge,
just as one end of a horseshoe magnet is positive and will repel the
north end of a compass needle, while the other pole of a magnet is
negative and will attract it. In electricity like repels like, while
negative and positive have a mutual attraction for each other.

Mr. Swift figured out that if he could send a powerful current of
negative electricity into the forward plate it would pull the boat
along, for water is a good conductor of electricity, while if a
positive charge was sent into the rear plate it would serve to push the
submarine along, and he would thus get a pulling and pushing motion,
just as a forward and aft propeller works on some ferry boats.

But the inventor did not depend on these plates alone.  There were
auxiliary forward and aft propellers of the regular type, so that if
the electrical plates did not work, or got out of order, the screws
would serve to send the Advance along.

There was much machinery in the submarine. There were gasolene motors,
since space was too cramped to allow the carrying of coal for boilers.
There were dynamos, motors and powerful pumps. Some of these were for
air, and some for water. To sink the submarine below the surface large
tanks were filled with water. To insure a more sudden descent,
deflecting rudders were also used, similar to those on an airship.
There were also special air pumps, and one for the powerful gas, which
was manufactured on board.

Forward from the engine-room was a cabin, where meals could be served,
and where the travelers could remain in the daytime. There was also a
small cooking galley, or kitchen, there. Back of the engine-room were
the sleeping quarters and the storerooms. The submarine was steered
from the forward compartment, and here were also levers, wheels and
valves that controlled all the machinery, while a number of dials
showed in which direction they were going, how deep they were, and at
what speed they were moving, as well as what the ocean pressure was.

On top, forward, was a small conning, or observation tower, with
auxiliary and steering and controlling apparatus there. This was to be
used when the ship was moving along on the surface of the ocean, or
merely with the deck awash.  There was a small flat deck surrounding
the conning tower and this was available when the craft was on the
surface.

There was provision made for leaving the ship when it was on the bed of
the ocean. When it was desired to do this the occupants put on diving
suits, which were provided with portable oxygen tanks. Then they
entered a chamber into which water was admitted until it was equal in
pressure to that outside. Then a steel door was opened, and they could
step out. To re-enter the ship the operation was reversed.  This was
not a new feature. In fact, many submarines to-day use it.

At certain places there were thick bull's-eye windows, by means of
which the under-water travelers could look out into the ocean through
which they were moving. As a defense against the attacks of submarine
monsters there was a steel, pointed ram, like a big harpoon. There were
also a bow and a stern electrical gun, of which more will be told later.

In addition to ample sleeping accommodations, there were many
conveniences aboard the Advance. Plenty of fresh water could be
carried, and there was an apparatus for distilling more from the sea
water that surrounded the travelers.  Compressed air was carried in
large tanks, and oxygen could be made as needed. In short, nothing that
could add to the comfort or safety of the travelers had been omitted.
There was a powerful crane and windlass, which had been installed when
Mr. Swift thought his boat might be bought by the Government. This was
to be used for raising wrecks or recovering objects from the bottom of
the ocean. Ample stores and provisions were to be carried and, once the
travelers were shut up in the Advance, they could exist for a month
below the surface, providing no accident occurred.

All these things Tom and Mr. Sharp thought of as they looked over the
ship before turning in for the night. The craft was made immensely
strong to withstand powerful pressure at the bottom of the ocean. The
submarine could penetrate to a depth of about three miles. Below that
it was dangerous to go, as the awful force would crush the plates,
powerful as they were.

"Well, we'll rush things to-morrow and the next day," observed Tom as
he prepared to leave the building. "Then we'll soon see if it works."

For the next week there were busy times in the shop near the ocean.
Great secrecy was maintained, and though curiosity seekers did stroll
along now and then, they received little satisfaction. At first Mr.
Swift thought that the visit of Mr. Berg would have unpleasant results,
for he feared that the agent would talk about the craft, of which he
had so unexpectedly gotten a sight. But nothing seemed to follow from
his chance inspection, and it was forgotten.

It was one evening, about a week later, that Tom was alone in the shop.
The two mechanics that had been hired to help out in the rush had been
let go, and the ship needed but a few adjustments to make it ready for
the sea.

"I think I'll just take another look at the water tank valves," said
Tom to himself as he prepared to enter the big compartments which
received the water ballast. "I want to be sure they work properly and
quickly. We've got to depend on them to make us sink when we want to,
and, what's more important, to rise to the surface in a hurry. I've got
time enough to look them over before dad and Mr. Sharp get back."

Tom entered the starboard tank by means of an emergency sliding door
between the big compartments and the main part of the ship. This was
closed by a worm and screw gear, and once the ship was in the water
would seldom be used.

The young inventor proceeded with his task, carefully inspecting the
valves by the light of a lantern he carried.  The apparatus seemed to
be all right, and Tom was about to leave when a peculiar noise
attracted his attention. It was the sound of metal scraping on metal,
and the lad's quick and well-trained ear told him it was somewhere
about the ship.

He turned to leave the tank, but as he wheeled around his light flashed
on a solid wall of steel back of him. The emergency outlet had been
closed! He was a prisoner in the water compartment, and he knew, from
past experience, that shout as he would, his voice could not be heard
ten feet away. His father and Mr. Sharp, as he was aware, had gone to a
nearby city for some tools, and Mr. Jackson, the engineer, was
temporarily away. Mrs. Baggert, in the house, could not hear his cries.

"I'm locked in!" cried Tom aloud. "The worm gear must have shut of
itself. But I don't see how that could be. I've got to get out mighty
soon, though, or I'll smother. This tank is airtight, and it won't take
me long to breath up all the oxygen there is here. I must get that
slide open."

He sought to grasp the steel plate that closed the emergency opening.
His fingers slipped over the smooth, polished surface. He was
hermetically sealed up--a captive!  Blankly he set his lantern down and
leaned hopelessly against the wall of the tank.

"I've got to get out," he murmured.

As if in answer to him he heard a voice on the outside, crying:

"There, Tom Swift! I guess I've gotten even with you now!  Maybe next
time you won't take a reward away from me, and lick me into the
bargain. I've got you shut up good and tight, and you'll stay there
until I get ready to let you out."

"Andy Foger!" gasped Tom. "Andy Foger sneaked in here and turned the
gear. But how did he get to this part of the coast? Andy Foger, you let
me out!" shouted the young inventor; and as Andy's mocking laugh came
to him faintly through the steel sides of the submarine, the imprisoned
lad beat desperately with his hands on the smooth sides of the tank,
vainly wondering how his enemy had discovered him.




Chapter Five

Mr. Berg is Suspicious


Not for long did the young inventor endeavor to break his way out of
the water-ballast tank by striking the heavy sides of it. Tom realized
that this was worse than useless.  He listened intently, but could hear
nothing. Even the retreating footsteps of Andy Foger were inaudible.

"This certainly is a pickle!" exclaimed Tom aloud. "I can't understand
how he ever got here. He must have traced us after we went to Shopton
in the airship the last time.  Then he sneaked in here. Probably he saw
me enter, but how could he know enough to work the worm gear and close
the door? Andy has had some experience with machinery, though, and one
of the vaults in the bank where his father is a director closed just
like this tank. That's very likely how he learned about it. But I've
got to do something else besides thinking of that sneak, Andy. I've got
to get out of here. Let's see if I can work the gear from inside."

Before he started, almost, Tom knew that it would be impossible. The
tank was made to close from the interior of the submarine, and the
heavy door, built to withstand the pressure of tons of water, could not
be forced except by the proper means.

"No use trying that," concluded the lad, after a tiring attempt to
force back the sliding door with his hands. "I've got to call for help."

He shouted until the vibrations in the confined space made his ears
ring, and the mere exertion of raising his voice to the highest pitch
made his heart beat quickly. Yet there came no response. He hardly
expected that there would be any, for with his father and Mr. Sharp
away, the engineer absent on an errand, and Mrs. Baggert in the house
some distance off, there was no one to hear his calls for help, even if
they had been capable of penetrating farther than the extent of the
shed, where the under-water craft had been constructed.

"I've got to wait until some of them come out here," thought Tom.
"They'll be sure to release me and make a search. Then it will be easy
enough to call to them and tell them where I am, once they are inside
the shed. But--" He paused, for a horrible fear came over him. "Suppose
they should come--too late?" The tank was airtight. There was enough
air in it to last for some time, but, sooner or later, it would no
longer support life. Already, Tom thought, it seemed oppressive, though
probably that was his imagination.

"I must get out!" he repeated frantically. "I'll die in here soon."

Again he tried to shove back the steel door. Then he repeated his cries
until he was weary. No one answered him.  He fancied once he could hear
footsteps in the shed, and thought, perhaps, it was Andy, come back to
gloat over him.  Then Tom knew the red-haired coward would not dare
venture back. We must do Andy the justice to say that he never realized
that he was endangering Tom's life. The bully had no idea the tank was
airtight when he closed it. He had seen Tom enter and a sudden whim
came to him to revenge himself.

But that did not help the young inventor any. There was no doubt about
it now--the air was becoming close. Tom had been imprisoned nearly two
hours, and as he was a healthy, strong lad, he required plenty of
oxygen. There was certainly less than there had been in the tank. His
head began to buzz, and there was a ringing in his ears.

Once more he fell upon his knees, and his fingers sought the small
projections of the gear on the inside of the door. He could no more
budge the mechanism than a child could open a burglar-proof vault.

"It's no use," he moaned, and he sprawled at full length on the floor
of the tank, for there the air was purer. As he did so his fingers
touched something. He started as they closed around the handle of a big
monkey wrench. It was one he had brought into the place with him.
Imbued with new hope he struck a match and lighted his lantern, which
he had allowed to go out as it burned up too much of the oxygen. By the
gleam of it he looked to see if there were any bolts or nuts he could
loosen with the wrench, in order to slide the door back. It needed but
a glance to show him the futility of this.

"It's no go," he murmured, and he let the wrench fall to the floor.
There was a ringing, clanging sound, and as it smote his ears Tom
sprang up with an exclamation.

"That's the thing!" he cried. "I wonder I didn't think of it before. I
can signal for help by pounding on the sides of the tank with the
wrench. The blows will carry a good deal farther than my voice would."
Every one knows how far the noise of a boiler shop, with hammers
falling on steel plates, can be heard; much farther than can a human
voice.

Tom began a lusty tattoo on the metal sides of the tank.  At first he
merely rattled out blow after blow, and then, as another thought came
to him, he adopted a certain plan. Some time previous, when he and Mr.
Sharp had planned their trip in the air, the two had adopted a code of
signals. As it was difficult in a high wind to shout from one end of
the airship to the other, the young inventor would sometimes pound on
the pipe which ran from the pilot house of the Red Cloud to the
engine-room. By a combination of numbers, simple messages could be
conveyed. The code included a call for help. Forty-seven was the
number, but there had never been any occasion to use it.

Tom remembered this now. At once he ceased his indiscriminate
hammering, and began to beat out regularly--one, two, three, four--then
a pause, and seven blows would be given. Over and over again he rang
out this number--forty seven--the call for help.

"If Mr. Sharp only comes back he will hear that, even in the house,"
thought poor Tom "Maybe Garret or Mrs. Baggert will hear it, too, but
they won't know what it means.  They'll think I'm just working on the
submarine."

It seemed several hours to Tom that he pounded out that cry for aid,
but, as he afterward learned, it was only a little over an hour. Signal
after signal he sent vibrating from the steel sides of the tank. When
one arm tired he would use the other. He grew weary, his head was
aching, and there was a ringing in his ears; a ringing that seemed as
if ten thousand bells were jangling out their peals, and he could
barely distinguish his own pounding.

Signal after signal he sounded. It was becoming like a dream to him,
when suddenly, as he paused for a rest, he heard his name called
faintly, as if far away.

"Tom! Tom! Where are you?"

It was the voice of Mr. Sharp. Then followed the tones of the aged
inventor.

"My poor boy! Tom, are you still alive?"

"Yes, dad! In the starboard tank!" the lad gasped out, and then he lost
his senses. When he revived he was lying on a pile of bagging in the
submarine shop, and his father and the aeronaut were bending over him.

"Are you all right, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Yes--I--I guess so," was the hesitating answer. "Yes," the lad added,
as the fresh air cleared his head. "I'll be all right pretty soon. Have
you seen Andy Foger?"

"Did he shut you in there?" demanded Mr. Swift.

Tom nodded.

"I'll have him arrested!" declared Mr. Swift. "I'll go to town as soon
as you're in good shape again and notify the police."

"No, don't," pleaded Tom. "I'll take care of Andy myself.  I don't
really believe he knew how serious it was. I'll settle with him later,
though."

"Well, it came mighty near being serious," remarked Mr. Sharp grimly.
"Your father and I came back a little sooner than we expected, and as
soon as I got near the house I heard your signal. I knew what it was in
a moment. There were Mrs. Baggert and Garret talking away, and when I
asked them why they didn't answer your call they said they thought you
were merely tinkering with the machinery. But I knew better. It's the
first time we ever had a use for 'forty-seven,' Tom."

"And I hope it will be the last," replied the young inventor with a
faint smile. "But I'd like to know what Andy Foger is doing in this
neighborhood."

Tom was soon himself again and able to go to the house, where he found
Mrs. Baggert brewing a big basin of catnip tea, under the impression
that it would in some way be good for him. She could not forgive
herself for not having answered his signal, and as for Mr. Jackson, he
had started for a doctor as soon as he learned that Tom was shut up in
the tank. The services of the medical man were canceled by telephone,
as there was no need for him, and the engineer came back to the house.

Tom was fully himself the next day, and aided his father and Mr. Sharp
in putting the finishing touches to the Advance. It was found that some
alteration was required in the auxiliary propellers, and this, much to
the regret of the young inventor, would necessitate postponing the
trial a few days.

"But we'll have her in the water next Friday," promised Mr. Swift.

"Aren't you superstitious about Friday?" asked the balloonist.

"Not a bit of it," replied the aged inventor. "Tom," he added, "I wish
you would go in the house and get me the roll of blueprints you'll find
on my desk."

As the lad neared the cottage he saw, standing in front of the place, a
small automobile. A man had just descended from it, and it needed but a
glance to show that he was Mr. Addison Berg.

"Ah, good morning, Mr. Swift," greeted Mr. Berg. "I wish to see your
father, but as I don't wish to lay myself open to suspicions by
entering the shop, perhaps you will ask him to step here."

"Certainly," answered the lad, wondering why the agent had returned.
Getting the blueprints, and asking Mr. Berg to sit down on the porch,
Tom delivered the message.

"You come back with me, Tom," said his father. "I want you to be a
witness to what he says. I'm not going to get into trouble with these
people."

Mr. Berg came to the point at once.

"Mr. Swift," he said, "I wish you would reconsider your determination
not to enter the Government trials. I'd like to see you compete. So
would my firm."

"There is no use going over that again," replied the aged inventor. "I
have another object in view now than trying for the Government prize.
What it is I can't say, but it may develop in time--if we are
successful," and he looked at his son, smiling the while.

Mr. Berg tried to argue, but it was of no avail. Then he changed his
manner, and said:

"Well, since you won't, you won't, I suppose. I'll go back and report
to my firm.  Have you anything special to do this morning?" he went on
to Tom.

"Well, I can always find something to keep me busy," replied the lad,
"but as for anything special--"

"I thought perhaps you'd like to go for a trip in my auto," interrupted
Mr. Berg. "I had asked a young man who is stopping at the same hotel
where I am to accompany me, but he has unexpectedly left, and I don't
like to go alone. His name was--let me see. I have a wretched memory
for names, but it was something like Roger or Moger."

"Foger!" cried Tom. "Was it Andy Foger?"

"Yes, that was it. Why, do you know him?" asked Mr. Berg in some
surprise.

"I should say so," replied Tom. "He was the cause of what might have
resulted in something serious for me," and the lad explained about
being imprisoned in the tank.

"You don't tell me!" cried Mr. Berg. "I had no idea he was that kind of
a lad. You see, his father is one of the directors of the firm by whom
I am employed. Andy came from home to spend a few weeks at the seaside,
and stopped at the same hotel that I did. He went off yesterday
afternoon, and I haven't seen him since, though he promised to go for a
ride with me. He must have come over here and entered your shop
unobserved. I remember now he asked me where the submarine was being
built that was going to compete with our firm's, and I told him. I
didn't think he was that kind of a lad. Well, since he's probably gone
back home, perhaps you will come for a ride with me, Tom."

"I'm afraid I can't go, thank you," answered the lad. "We are very busy
getting our submarine in shape for a trial.  But I can imagine why Andy
left so hurriedly. He probably learned that a doctor had been summoned
for me, though, as it happened, I didn't need one. But Andy probably
got frightened at what he had done, and left. I'll make him more sorry,
when I meet him."

"Don't blame you a bit," commented Mr. Berg. "Well, I must be getting
back."

He hastened out to his auto, while Tom and his father watched the agent.

"Tom, never trust that man," advised the aged inventor solemnly.

"Just what I was about to remark," said his son. "Well, let's get back
to work. Queer that he should come here again, and it's queer about
Andy Foger."

Father and son returned to the machine shop, while Mr. Berg puffed away
in his auto. A little later, Tom having occasion to go to a building
near the boundary line of the cottage property which his father had
hired for the season, saw, through the hedge that bordered it, an
automobile standing in the road. A second glance showed him that it was
Mr. Berg's machine. Something had gone wrong with it, and the agent had
alighted to make an adjustment.

The young inventor was close to the man, though the latter was unaware
of his presence.

"Hang it all!" Tom heard Mr. Berg exclaim to himself. "I wonder what
they can be up to? They won't enter the Government contests, and they
won't say why. I believe they're up to some game, and I've got to find
out what it is. I wonder if I couldn't use this Foger chap?"

"He seems to have it in for this Tom Swift," Mr. Berg went on, still
talking to himself, though not so low but that Tom could hear him. "I
think I'll try it. I'll get Andy Foger to sneak around and find out
what the game is. He'll do it, I know."

By this time the auto was in working order again, and the agent took
his seat and started off.

"So that's how matters lie, eh?" thought Tom. "Well, Mr. Berg, we'll be
doubly on the lookout for you after this. As for Andy Foger, I think
I'll make him wish he'd never locked me in that tank. So you expect to
find out our 'game,' eh, Mr. Berg? Well, when you do know it, I think
it will astonish you. I only hope you don't learn what it is until we
get at that sunken treasure, though."

But alas for Tom's hopes. Mr. Berg did learn of the object of the
treasure-seekers, and sought to defeat them, as we shall learn as our
story proceeds.




Chapter Six

Turning the Tables


When the young inventor informed his father what he had overheard Mr.
Berg saying, the aged inventor was not as much worried as his son
anticipated.

"All we'll have to do, Tom," he said, "is to keep quiet about where we
are going. Once we have the Advance afloat, and try her out, we can
start on our voyage for the South American Coast and search for the
sunken treasure. When we begin our voyage under water I defy any one to
tell where we are going, or what our plans are. No, I don't believe we
need worry about Mr. Berg, though he probably means mischief."

"Well, I'm going to keep my eyes open for him and Andy Foger," declared
Tom.

The days that followed were filled with work. Not only were there many
unexpected things to do about the submarine, but Mr. Sharp was kept
busy making inquiries about the sunken treasure ship. These inquiries
had to be made carefully, as the adventurers did not want their plans
talked of, and nothing circulates more quickly than rumors of an
expedition after treasure of any kind.

"What about the old sea captain you were going to get to go with us?"
asked Mr. Swift of the balloonist one afternoon.  "Have you succeeded
in finding one yet?"

"Yes; I am in communication with a man I think will be just the person
for us. His name is Captain Alden Weston, and he has sailed all over
the world. He has also taken part in more than one revolution, and, in
fact, is a soldier of fortune. I do not know him personally, but a
friend of mine knows him, and says he will serve us faithfully. I have
written to him, and he will be here in a few days."

"That's good. Now about the location of the wreck itself.  Have you
been able to learn any more details?"

"Well, not many. You see, the Boldero was abandoned in a storm, and the
captain did not take very careful observations. As nearly as it can be
figured out the treasure ship went to the bottom in latitude forty-five
degrees south, and longitude twenty-seven east from Washington. That's
a pretty indefinite location, but I hope, once we get off the Uruguay
coast, we can better it. We can anchor or lay outside the harbor, and
in the small boat we carry go ashore and possibly gain more details.
For it was at Montevideo that the shipwrecked passengers and sailors
landed."

"Does Captain Weston know our object?" inquired Tom.

"No, and I don't propose to tell him until we are ready to start,"
replied Mr. Sharp. "I don't know just how he'll consider a submarine
trip after treasure, but if I spring it on him suddenly he's less
likely to back out. Oh, I think he'll go."

Somewhat unexpectedly the next day it was discovered that certain tools
and appliances were needed for the submarine, and they had been left in
the house at Shopton, where Eradicate Sampson was in charge as
caretaker during the absence of Mr. Swift and his son and the
housekeeper.

"Well, I suppose we'll have to go back after them," remarked Tom.
"We'll take the airship, dad, and make a two-days' trip of it. Is there
anything else you want?"

"Well, you might bring a bundle of papers you'll find in the lower
right hand drawer of my desk. They contain some memoranda I need."

Tom and Mr. Sharp had become so used to traveling in the airship that
it seemed no novelty to them, though they attracted much attention
wherever they went. They soon had the Red Cloud in readiness for a
flight, and rising in the air above the shop that contained the
powerful submarine, a craft utterly different in type from the
aeroplane, the nose of the airship was pointed toward Shopton.

They made a good flight and landed near the big shed where the bird of
the air was kept. It was early evening when they got to the Swift
homestead, and Eradicate Sampson was glad to see them.

Eradicate was a good cook, and soon had a meal ready for the travelers.
Then, while Mr. Sharp selected the tools and other things needed, and
put them in the airship ready for the start back the next morning, Tom
concluded he would take a stroll into Shopton, to see if he could see
his friend, Ned Newton. It was early evening, and the close of a
beautiful day, a sharp shower in the morning having cooled the air.

Tom was greeted by a number of acquaintances as he strolled along, for,
since the episode of the bank robbery, when he had so unexpectedly
returned with the thieves and the cash, the lad was better known than
ever.

"I guess Ned must be home," thought our hero as he looked in vain for
his chum among the throng on the streets. "I've got time to take a
stroll down to his house."

Tom was about to cross the street when he was startled by the sound of
an automobile horn loudly blown just at his side. Then a voice called:

"Hey, there! Git out of the way if you don't want to be run over!"

He looked up, and saw a car careening along. At the wheel was the
red-haired bully, Andy Foger, and in the tonneau were Sam Snedecker and
Pete Bailey.

"Git out of the way," added Sam, and he grinned maliciously at Tom.

The latter stepped back, well out of the path of the car, which was not
moving very fast. Just in front of Tom was a puddle of muddy water.
There was no necessity for Andy steering into it, but he saw his
opportunity, and a moment later one of the big pneumatic tires had
plunged into the dirty fluid, spattering it all over Tom, some even
going as high as his face.

"Ha! ha!" laughed Andy. "Maybe you'll get out of my way next time, Tom
Swift."

The young inventor was almost speechless from righteous anger. He wiped
the mud from his face, glanced down at his clothes, which were all but
ruined, and called out:

"Hold on there, Andy Foger! I want to see you!" for he thought of the
time when Andy had shut him in the tank.

"Ta! ta!" shouted Pete Bailey.

"See you later," added Sam.

"Better go home and take a bath, and then sail away in your submarine,"
went on Andy. "I'll bet it will sink."

Before Tom could reply the auto had turned a corner.  Disgusted and
angry, he tried to sop up some of the muddy water with his
handkerchief. While thus engaged he heard his name called, and looked
up to see Ned Newton.

"What's the matter? Fall down?" asked his chum.

"Andy Foger," replied Tom.

"That's enough," retorted Ned. "I can guess the rest.  We'll have to
tar and feather him some day, and ride him out of town on a rail. I'd
kick him myself, only his father is a director in the bank where I
work, and I'd be fired if I did. Can't afford any such pleasure. But
some day I'll give Andy a good trouncing, and then resign before they
can discharge me. But I'll be looking for another job before I do that.
Come on to my house, Tom, and I'll help you clean up."

Tom was a little more presentable when he left his chum's residence,
after spending the evening there, but he was still burning for revenge
against Andy and his cronies. He had half a notion to go to Andy's
house and tell Mr. Foger how nearly serious the bully's prank at the
submarine had been, but he concluded that Mr. Foger could only uphold
his son. "No, I'll settle with him myself," decided Tom.

Bidding Eradicate keep a watchful eye about the house, and leaving word
for Mr. Damon to be sure to come to the coast if he again called at the
Shopton house, Tom and Mr. Sharp prepared to make their return trip
early the next morning.

The gas tank was filled and the Red Cloud arose in the air. Then, with
the propellers moving at moderate speed, the nose of the craft was
pointed toward the New Jersey coast.

A few miles out from Shopton, finding there was a contrary wind in the
upper regions where they were traveling, Mr. Sharp descended several
hundred feet. They were moving over a sparsely settled part of the
country, and looking down, Tom saw, speeding along a highway, an
automobile.

"I wonder who's in it?" he remarked, taking down a telescope and
peering over the window ledge of the cabin.  The next moment he uttered
a startled exclamation.

"Andy  Foger, Sam  Snedecker and Pete Bailey!" he cried.  "Oh, I wish I
had a bucket of water to empty on them."

"I know a better way to get even with them than that," said Mr. Sharp.

"How?" asked Tom eagerly.

"I'll show you," replied the balloonist. "It's a trick I once played on
a fellow who did me an injury. Here, you steer for a minute until I get
the thing fixed, then I'll take charge."

Mr. Sharp went to the storeroom and came back with a long, stout rope
and a small anchor of four prongs. It was carried to be used in
emergencies, but so far had never been called into requisition.
Fastening the grapple to the cable, the balloonist said:

"Now, Tom, they haven't seen you. You stand in the stern and pay out
the rope. I'll steer the airship, and what I want you to do is to catch
the anchor in the rear of their car. Then I'll show you some fun."

Tom followed instructions. Slowly he lowered the rope with the dangling
grapple. The airship was also sent down, as the cable was not quite
long enough to reach the earth from the height at which they were. The
engine was run at slow speed, so that the noise would not attract the
attention of the three cronies who were speeding along, all unconscious
of the craft in the air over their heads. The Red Cloud was moving in
the same direction as was the automobile.

The anchor was now close to the rear of Andy's car.  Suddenly it caught
on the tonneau and Tom called that fact to Mr. Sharp.

"Fasten the rope at the cleat," directed the balloonist.

Tom did so, and a moment later the aeronaut sent the airship up by
turning more gas into the container. At the same time he reversed the
engine and the Red Cloud began pulling the touring car backward, also
lifting the rear wheels clear from the earth.

A startled cry from the occupants of the machine told Tom and his
friend that Andy and his cronies were aware something was wrong. A
moment later Andy, looking up, saw the airship hovering in the air
above him. Then he saw the rope fast to his auto. The airship was not
rising now, or the auto would have been turned over, but it was slowly
pulling it backward, in spite of the fact that the motor of the car was
still going.

"Here! You let go of me!" cried Andy. "I'll have you arrested if you
damage my car."

"Come up here and cut the rope," called Tom leaning over and looking
down. He could enjoy the bully's discomfiture.  As for Sam and Pete,
they were much frightened, and cowered down on the floor of the tonneau.

"Maybe you'll shut me in the tank again and splash mud on me!" shouted
Tom.

The rear wheels of the auto were lifted still higher from the ground,
as Mr. Sharp turned on a little more gas. Andy was not proof against
this.

"Oh! oh!" he cried. "Please let me down, Tom. I'm awful sorry for what
I did! I'll never do it again! Please, please let me down! Don't! You'll
tip me over!"

He had shut off his motor now, and was frantically clinging to the
steering wheel.

"Do you admit that you're a sneak and a coward?" asked Tom, "rubbing it
in."

"Yes, yes!  Oh, please let me down!"

"Shall we?" asked Tom of Mr. Sharp.

"Yes," replied the balloonist. "We can afford to lose the rope and
anchor for the sake of turning the tables. Cut the cable."

Tom saw what was intended. Using a little hatchet, he severed the rope
with a single blow. With a crash that could be heard up in the air
where the Red Cloud hovered, the rear wheels of the auto dropped to the
ground. Then came two loud reports.

"Both tires busted!" commented Mr. Sharp dryly, and Tom, looking down,
saw the trio of lads ruefully contemplating the collapsed rubber of the
rear wheels. The tables had been effectually turned on Andy Foger. His
auto was disabled, and the airship, with a graceful sweep, mounted
higher and higher, continuing on its way to the coast.




Chapter Seven

Mr. Damon Will Go


"Well, I guess they've had their lesson," remarked Tom, as he took an
observation through the telescope and saw Andy and his cronies hard at
work trying to repair the ruptured tires. "That certainly was a corking
good trick."

"Yes," admitted Mr. Sharp modestly. "I once did something similar, only
it was a horse and wagon instead of an auto.  But let's try for another
speed record. The conditions are just right."

They arrived at the coast much sooner than they had dared to hope, the
Red Cloud proving herself a veritable wonder.

The remainder of that day, and part of the next, was spent in working
on the submarine.

"We'll launch her day after to-morrow," declared Mr. Swift
enthusiastically. "Then to see whether my calculations are right or
wrong."

"It won't be your fault if it doesn't work," said his son.  "You
certainly have done your best."

"And so have you and Mr. Sharp and the others, for that matter. Well, I
have no doubt but that everything will be all right, Tom."

"There!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp the next morning, as he was adjusting a
certain gage. "I knew I'd forget something. That special brand of
lubricating oil. I meant to bring it from Shopton, and I didn't."

"Maybe I can get it in Atlantis," suggested Tom, naming the coast city
nearest to them. "I'll take a walk over. It isn't far."

"Will you? I'll be glad to have you," resumed the balloonist. "A gallon
will be all we'll need."

Tom was soon on his way. He had to walk, as the roads were too poor to
permit him to use the motor-cycle, and the airship attracted too much
attention to use on a short trip.  He was strolling along, when from
the other side of a row of sand dunes, that lined the uncertain road to
Atlantis, he heard some one speaking. At first the tones were not
distinct, but as the lad drew nearer to the voice he heard an
exclamation.

"Bless my gold-headed cane! I believe I'm lost. He said it was out this
way somewhere, but I don't see anything of it.  If I had that Eradicate
Sampson here now I'd--bless my shoelaces I don't know what I would do
to him."

"Mr. Damon! Mr. Damon!" cried Tom. "Is that you?"

"Me? Of course it's me! Who else would it be?" answered the voice. "But
who are you. Why, bless my liver! If it isn't Tom Swift!" he cried.
"Oh, but I'm glad to see you! I was afraid I was shipwrecked! Bless my
gaiters, how are you, anyhow? How is your father? How is Mr. Sharp, and
all the rest of them?"

"Pretty well. And you?"

"Me? Oh, I'm all right; only a trifle nervous. I called at your house
in Shopton yesterday, and Eradicate told me, as well as he could, where
you were located. I had nothing to do, so I thought I'd take a run down
here. But what's this I hear about you? Are you going on a voyage?"

"Yes."

"In the air? May I go along again? I certainly enjoyed my other trip in
the Red Cloud. That is, all but the fire and being shot at. May I go?"

"We're going on a different sort of trip this time," said the youth.

"Where?"

"Under water."

"Under water?  Bless my sponge bath! You don't mean it!"

"Yes. Dad has completed the submarine he was working on when we were
off in the airship, and it will be launched the day after to-morrow."

"Oh, that's so. I'd forgotten about it. He's going to try for the
Government prize, isn't he? But tell me more about it. Bless my
scarf-pin, but I'm glad I met you! Going into town, I take it. Well, I
just came from there, but I'll walk back with you. Do you think--is
there any possibility--that I could go with you? Of course, I don't
want to crowd you, but--"

"Oh, there'll be plenty of room," replied the young inventor. "In fact,
more room than we had in the airship. We were talking only the other
day about the possibility of you going with us, but we didn't think
you'd risk it."

"Risk it? Bless my liver! Of course I'll risk it! It can't be as bad
as sailing in the air. You can't fall, that's certain."

"No; but maybe you can't rise," remarked Tom grimly.

"Oh, we won't think of that. Of course, I'd like to go. I fully
expected to be killed in the Red Cloud, but as I wasn't. I'm ready to
take a chance in the water. On the whole, I think I prefer to be buried
at sea, anyhow. Now, then, will you take me?"

"I think I can safely promise," answered Tom with a smile at his
friend's enthusiasm.

The two were approaching the city, having walked along as they talked.
There were still some sand dunes near the road, and they kept on the
side of these, nearest the beach, where they could watch the breakers.

"But you haven't told me where you are going," went on Mr. Damon, after
blessing a few dozen objects. "Where do the Government trials take
place?"

"Well," replied the lad, "to be frank with you, we have abandoned our
intention of trying for the Government prize."

"Not going to try for it? Bless my slippers! Why not?  Isn't fifty
thousand dollars worth striving for? And, with the kind of a submarine
you say you have, you ought to be able to win."

"Yes, probably we could win," admitted the young inventor, "but we are
going to try for a better prize."

"A better one? I don't understand."

"Sunken treasure," explained Tom. "There's a ship sunk off the coast of
Uruguay, with three hundred thousand dollars in gold bullion aboard.
Dad and I are going to try to recover that in our submarine. We're
going to start day after to-morrow, and, if you like, you may go along."

"Go along! Of course I'll go along!" cried the eccentric man. "But I
never heard of such a thing. Sunken treasure!  Three hundred thousand
dollars in gold! My, what a lot of money! And to go after it in a
submarine! It's as good as a story!"

"Yes, we hope to recover all the treasure," said the lad.  "We ought to
be able to claim at least half of it."

"Bless my pocketbook!" cried Mr. Damon, but Tom did not hear him. At
that instant his attention was attracted by seeing two men emerge from
behind the sand dune near which he and Mr. Damon had halted
momentarily, when the youth explained about the treasure. The man
looked sharply at Tom.  A moment later the first man was joined by
another, and at the sight of him our hero could not repress an
exclamation of alarm. For the second man was none other than Addison
Berg.

The latter glanced quickly at Tom, and then, with a hasty word to his
companion, the two swung around and made off in the opposite direction
to that in which they had been walking.

"What's the matter?" asked Mr. Damon, seeing the young inventor was
strangely affected.

"That--that man," stammered the lad.

"You don't mean to tell me that was one the Happy Harry gang, do you?"

"No. But one, or both of those men, may prove to be worse.  That second
man was Addison Berg, and he's agent for a firm of submarine boat
builders who are rivals of dad's. Berg has been trying to find out why
we abandoned our intention of competing for the Government prize."

"I hope you didn't tell him."

"I didn't intend to," replied Tom, smiling grimly, "but I'm afraid I
have, however. He certainly overheard what I said. I spoke too loud.
Yes, he must have heard me. That's why he hurried off so."

"Possibly no harm is done. You didn't give the location of the sunken
ship."

"No; but I guess from what I said it will be easy enough to find. Well,
if we're going to have a fight for the possession of that sunken gold,
I'm ready for it. The Advance is well equipped for a battle. I must
tell dad of this. It's my fault."

"And partly mine, for asking you such leading questions in a public
place," declared Mr. Damon. "Bless my coat-tails, but I'm sorry! Maybe,
after all, those men were so interested in what they themselves were
saying that they didn't understand what you said."

But if there had been any doubts on this score they would have been
dissolved had Tom and his friend been able to see the actions of Mr.
Berg and his companion a little later.  The plans of the
treasure-hunters had been revealed to their ears.




Chapter Eight

Another Treasure Expedition


While Tom and Mr. Damon continued on to Atlantis after the oil, the
young inventor lamenting from time to time that his remarks about the
real destination of the Advance had been overheard by Mr. Berg, the
latter and his companion were hastening back along the path that ran on
one side of the sand dunes.

"What's your hurry?" asked Mr. Maxwell, who was with the submarine
agent. "You turned around as if you were shot when you saw that man and
the lad. There didn't appear to be any cause for such a hurry. From
what I could hear they were talking about a submarine. You're in the
same business. You might be friends."

"Yes, we might," admitted Mr. Berg with a peculiar smile; "but, unless
I'm very much mistaken, we're going to be rivals."

"Rivals? What do you mean?"

"I can't tell you now. Perhaps I may later. But if you don't mind, walk
a little faster, please. I want to get to a long-distance telephone."

"What for?"

"I have just overheard something that I wish to communicate to my
employers, Bentley & Eagert."

"Overheard something? I don't see what it could be, unless that lad--"

"You'll learn in good time," went on the submarine agent.  "But I must
telephone at once."

A little later the two men had reached a trolley line that ran into
Atlantis, and they arrived at the city before Mr. Damon and Tom got
there, as the latter had to go by a circuitous route. Mr. Berg lost no
time in calling up his firm by telephone.

"I have had another talk with Mr. Swift," he reported to Mr. Bentley,
who came to the instrument in Philadelphia.

"Well, what does he say?" was the impatient question. "I can't
understand his not wanting to try for the Government prize. It is
astonishing. You said you were going to discover the reason, Mr Berg,
but you haven't done so."

"I have."

"What is it?"

"Well, the reason Mr. Swift and his son don't care to try for the fifty
thousand dollar prize is that they are after one of three hundred
thousand dollars."

"Three hundred thousand dollars!" cried Mr. Bentley. "What government
is going to offer such a prize as that for submarines, when they are
getting almost as common as airships? We ought to have a try for that
ourselves. What government is it?"

"No government at all. But I think we ought to have a try for it, Mr.
Bentley."

"Explain."

"Well, I have just learned, most accidentally, that the Swifts are
going after sunken treasure--three hundred thousand dollars in gold
bullion."

"Sunken treasure? Where?

"I don't know exactly, but off the coast of Uruguay," and Mr. Berg
rapidly related what he had overheard Tom tell Mr. Damon. Mr. Bentley
was much excited and impatient for more details, but his agent could
not give them to him.

"Well," concluded the senior member of the firm of submarine boat
builders, "if the Swifts are going after treasure, so can we. Come to
Philadelphia at once, Mr. Berg, and we'll talk this matter over. There
is no time to lose.  We can afford to forego the Government prize for
the chance of getting a much larger one. We have as much right to
search for the sunken gold as the Swifts have. Come here at once, and
we will make our plans."

"All right," agreed the agent with a smile as he hung up the receiver.
"I guess," he murmured to himself, "that you won't be so high and
mighty with me after this, Tom Swift.  We'll see who has the best boat,
after all. We'll have a contest and a competition, but not for a
government prize.  It will be for the sunken gold."

It was easy to see that Mr. Berg was much pleased with himself.

Meanwhile, Tom and Mr. Damon had reached Atlantis, and had purchased
the oil. They started back, but Tom took a street leading toward the
center of the place, instead of striking for the beach path, along
which they had come.

"Where are you going?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I want to see if that Andy Foger has come back here," replied the lad,
and he told of having been shut in the tank by the bully.

"I've never properly punished him for that trick," he went on, "though
we did manage to burst his auto tires. I'm curious to know how he knew
enough to turn that gear and shut the tank door. He must have been
loitering near the shop, seen me go in the submarine alone, watched his
chance and sneaked in after me. But I'd like to get a complete
explanation, and if I once got hold of Andy I could make him talk," and
Tom clenched his fist in a manner that augured no good for the
squint-eyed lad. "He was stopping at the same hotel with Mr. Berg, and
he hurried away after the trick he played on me. I next saw him in
Shopton, but I thought perhaps he might have come back here. I'm going
to inquire at the hotel," he added.

Andy's name was not on the register since his hasty flight, however,
and Tom, after inquiring from the clerk and learning that Mr. Berg was
still a guest at the hostelry, rejoined Mr. Damon.

"Bless my hat!" exclaimed that eccentric individual as they started
back to the lonely beach where the submarine was awaiting her advent
into the water. "The more I think of the trip I'm going to take, the
more I like it."

"I hope you will," remarked Tom. "It will be a new experience for all
of us. There's only one thing worrying me, and that is about Mr. Berg
having overheard what I said."

"Oh, don't worry about that. Can't we slip away and leave no trace in
the water?"

"I hope so, but I must tell dad and Mr. Sharp about what happened."

The aged inventor was not a little alarmed at what his son related, but
he agreed with Mr. Damon, whom he heartily welcomed, that little was to
be apprehended from Berg and his employers.

"They know we're after a sunken wreck, but that's all they do know,"
said Tom's father. "We are only waiting for the arrival of Captain
Alden Weston, and then we will go. Even if Bentley & Eagert make a try
for the treasure we'll have the start of them, and this will be a case
of first come, first served. Don't worry, Tom. I'm glad you're going,
Mr Damon. Come, I will show you our submarine."

As father and son, with their guest, were going to the machine shop,
Mr. Sharp met them. He had a letter in his hand.

"Good news!" the balloonist cried. "Captain Weston will be with us
to-morrow. He will arrive at the Beach Hotel in Atlantis, and wants one
of us to meet him there. He has considerable information about the
wreck."

"The Beach Hotel," murmured Tom. "That is where Mr. Berg is stopping. I
hope he doesn't worm any of our secret from Captain Weston," and it was
with a feeling of uneasiness that the young inventor continued after
his father and Mr. Damon to where the submarine was.




Chapter Nine

Captain Weston's Advent


"Bless my water ballast, but that certainly is a fine boat!" cried Mr.
Damon, when he had been shown over the new craft.  "I think I shall
feel even safer in that than in the Red Cloud."

"Oh, don't go back on the airship!" exclaimed Mr Sharp. "I was counting
on taking you on another trip."

"Well, maybe after we get back from under the ocean," agreed Mr. Damon.
"I particularly like the cabin arrangements of the Advance. I think I
shall enjoy myself."

He would be hard to please who could not take pleasure from a trip in
the submarine. The cabin was particularly fine, and the sleeping
arrangements were good.

More supplies could be carried than was possible on the airship, and
there was more room in which to cook and serve food. Mr. Damon was fond
of good living, and the kitchen pleased him as much as anything else.

Early the next morning Tom set out for Atlantis, to meet Captain Weston
at the hotel. The young inventor inquired of the clerk whether the
seafaring man had arrived, and was told that he had come the previous
evening.

"Is he in his room?" asked Tom.

"No," answered the clerk with a peculiar grin. "He's an odd character.
Wouldn't go to bed last night until we had every window in his room
open, though it was blowing quite hard, and likely to storm. The
captain said he was used to plenty of fresh air. Well, I guess he got
it, all right."

"Where is he now?" asked the youth, wondering what sort of an
individual he was to meet.

"Oh, he was up before sunrise, so some of the scrubwomen told me. They
met him coming from his room, and he went right down to the beach with
a big telescope he always carries with him. He hasn't come back yet.
Probably he's down on the sand."

"Hasn't he had breakfast?"

"No. He left word he didn't want to eat until about four bells,
whatever time that is."

"It's ten o'clock," replied Tom, who had been studying up on sea terms
lately. "Eight bells is eight o'clock in the morning, or four in the
afternoon or eight at night, according to the time of day. Then there's
one bell for every half hour, so four bells this morning would be ten
o'clock in this watch, I suppose."

"Oh, that's the way it goes, eh?" asked the clerk. "I never could get
it through my head. What is twelve o'clock noon?"

"That's eight bells, too; so is twelve o'clock midnight.  Eight bells
is as high as they go on a ship. But I guess I'll go down and see if I
can meet the captain. It will soon be ten o'clock, or four bells, and
he must be hungry for breakfast. By the way, is that Mr. Berg still
here?"

"No; he went away early this morning. He and Captain Weston seemed to
strike up quite an acquaintance, the night clerk told me. They sat and
smoked together until long after midnight, or eight bells," and the
clerk smiled as he glanced down at the big diamond ring on his little
finger.

"They did?" fairly exploded Tom, for he had visions of what the wily
Mr. Berg might worm out of the simple captain.

"Yes. Why, isn't the captain a proper man to make friends with?" and
the clerk looked at Tom curiously.

"Oh, yes, of course," was the hasty answer. "I guess I'll go and see if
I can find him--the captain, I mean."

Tom hardly knew what to think. He wished his father, or Mr. Sharp, had
thought to warn Captain Weston against talking of the wreck. It might
be too late now.

The young inventor hurried to the beach, which was not far from the
hotel. He saw a solitary figure pacing up and down, and from the fact
that the man stopped, every now and then, and gazed seaward through a
large telescope, the lad concluded it was the captain for whom he was
in search. He approached, his footsteps making no sound on the sand.
The man was still gazing through the glass.

"Captain Weston?" spoke Tom.

Without a show of haste, though the voice must have startled him, the
captain turned. Slowly he lowered the telescope, and then he replied
softly:

"That's my name. Who are you, if I may ask?"

Tom was struck, more than by anything else, by the gentle voice of the
seaman. He had prepared himself, from the description of Mr. Sharp, to
meet a gruff, bewhiskered individual, with a voice like a crosscut saw,
and a rolling gait. Instead he saw a man of medium size, with a smooth
face, merry blue eyes, and the softest voice and gentlest manner
imaginable. Tom was very much disappointed. He had looked for a regular
sea-dog, and he met a landsman, as he said afterward. But it was not
long before our hero changed his mind regarding Captain Weston.

"I'm Tom Swift," the owner of that name said, "and I have been sent to
show you the way to where our ship is ready to launch." The young
inventor refrained from mentioning submarine, as it was the wish of Mr
Sharp to disclose this feature of the voyage to the sailor himself.

"Ha, I thought as much," resumed the captain quietly.  "It's a fine
day, if I may be permitted to say so," and he seemed to hesitate, as if
there was some doubt whether or not he might make that observation.

"It certainly is," agreed the lad. Then, with a smile he added: "It is
nearly four bells."

"Ha!" exclaimed the captain, also smiling, but even his manner of
saying "Ha!" was less demonstrative than that of most persons. "I
believe I am getting hungry, if I may be allowed the remark," and again
he seemed asking Tom's pardon for mentioning the fact.

"Perhaps you will come back to the cabin and have a little breakfast
with me," he went on. "I don't know what sort of a galley or cook they
have aboard the Beach Hotel, but it can't be much worse than some I've
tackled."

"No, thank you," answered the youth. "I've had my breakfast. But I'll
wait for you, and then I'd like to get back. Dad and Mr. Sharp are
anxious to meet you."

"And I am anxious to meet them, if you don't mind me mentioning it,"
was the reply, as the captain once more put the spyglass to his eye and
took an observation. "Not many sails in sight this morning," he added.
"But the weather is fine, and we ought to get off in good shape to hunt
for the treasure about which Mr. Sharp wrote me. I believe we are going
after treasure," he said; "that is, if you don't mind talking about it."

"Not in the least," replied Tom quickly, thinking this a good
opportunity for broaching a subject that was worrying him. "Did you
meet a Mr. Berg here last night, Captain Weston?" he went on.

"Yes. Mr. Berg and I had quite a talk. He is a well-informed man."

"Did he mention the sunken treasure?" asked the lad, eager to find out
if his suspicions were true.

"Yes, he did, if you'll excuse me putting it so plainly," answered the
seaman, as if Tom might be offended at so direct a reply. But the young
inventor was soon to learn that this was only an odd habit with the
seaman.

"Did he want to know where the wreck of the Boldero was located?"
continued the lad. "That is, did he try to discover if you knew
anything about it?"

"Yes," said Mr. Weston, "he did. He pumped me, if you are acquainted
with that term, and are not offended by it. You see, when I arrived
here I made inquiries as to where your father's place was located. Mr.
Berg overheard me, and introduced himself as agent for a shipbuilding
concern. He was very friendly, and when he said he knew you and your
parent, I thought he was all right."

Tom's heart sank. His worst fears were to be realized, he thought.

"Yes, he and I talked considerable, if I may be permitted to say so,"
went on the captain. "He seemed to know about the wreck of the Boldero,
and that she had three hundred thousand dollars in gold aboard. The
only thing he didn't know was where the wreck was located. He knew it
was off Uruguay somewhere, but just where he couldn't say. So he asked
me if I knew, since he must have concluded that I was going with you on
the gold-hunting expedition."

"And you do know, don't you?" asked Tom eagerly.

"Well, I have it pretty accurately charted out, if you will allow me
that expression," was the calm answer. "I took pains to look it up at
the request of Mr. Sharp."

"And he wanted to worm that information out of you?" inquired the youth
excitedly.

"Yes, I'm afraid he did."

"Did you give him the location?"

"Well," remarked the captain, as he took another observation before
closing up the telescope, "you see, while we were talking, I happened
to drop a copy of a map I'd made, showing the location of the wreck.
Mr. Berg picked it up to hand to me, and he looked at it."

"Oh!" cried Tom. "Then he knows just where the treasure is, and he may
get to it ahead of us. It's too bad."

"Yes," continued the seaman calmly, "Mr. Berg picked up that map, and
he looked very closely at the latitude and longitude I had marked as
the location of the wreck."

"Then he won't have any trouble finding it," murmured our hero.

"Eh? What's that?" asked the captain, "if I may be permitted to request
you to repeat what you said."

"I say he won't have any trouble locating the sunken Boldero," repeated
Tom.

"Oh, but I think he will, if he depends on that map," was the
unexpected reply. "You see," explained Mr. Weston, "I'm not so simple
as I look. I sensed what Mr. Berg was after, the minute he began to
talk to me. So I fixed up a little game on him. The map which I dropped
on purpose, not accidentally, where he would see it, did have the
location of the wreck marked. Only it didn't happen to be the right
location. It was about five hundred miles out of the way, and I rather
guess if Mr. Berg and his friends go there for treasure they'll find
considerable depth of water and quite a lonesome spot. Oh, no, I'm not
as easy as I look, if you don't mind me mentioning that fact; and when
a scoundrel sets out to get the best of me, I generally try to turn the
tables on him. I've seen such men as Mr. Berg before. I'm afraid, I'm
very much afraid, the sight he had of the fake map I made won't do him
much good. Well, I declare, it's past four bells. Let's go to
breakfast, if you don't mind me asking you," and with that the captain
started off up the beach, Tom following, his ideas all a whirl at the
unlooked-for outcome of the interview.




Chapter Ten

Trial of the Submarine


Tom felt such a relief at hearing of Captain Weston's ruse that his
appetite, sharpened by an early breakfast and the sea air, came to him
with a rush, and he had a second morning meal with the odd sea captain,
who chuckled heartily when he thought of how Mr Berg had been deceived.

"Yes," resumed Captain Weston, over his bacon and eggs, "I sized him up
for a slick article as soon as I laid eyes on him. But he evidently
misjudged me, if I may be permitted that term. Oh, well, we may meet
again, after we secure the treasure, and then I can show him the real
map of the location of the wreck."

"Then you have it?" inquired the lad eagerly.

Captain Weston nodded, before hiding his face behind a large cup of
coffee; his third, by the way.

"Let me see it?" asked Tom quickly. The captain set down his cup. He
looked carefully about the hotel dining-room.  There were several
guests, who, like himself, were having a late breakfast.

"It's a good plan," the sailor said slowly, "when you're going into
unknown waters, and don't want to leave a wake for the other fellow to
follow, to keep your charts locked up. If it's all the same to you," he
added diffidently, "I'd rather wait until we get to where your father
and Mr. Sharp are before displaying the real map. I've no objection to
showing you the one Mr. Berg saw," and again he chuckled.

The young inventor blushed at his indiscretion. He felt that the news
of the search for the treasure had leaked out through him, though he
was the one to get on the trail of it by seeing the article in the
paper. Now he had nearly been guilty of another break. He realized that
he must be more cautious. The captain saw his confusion, and said:

"I know how it is. You're eager to get under way. I don't blame you. I
was the same myself when I was your age. But we'll soon be at your
place, and then I'll tell you all I know. Sufficient now, to say that I
believe I have located the wreck within a few miles. I got on the track
of a sailor who had met one of the shipwrecked crew of the Boldero, and
he gave me valuable information. Now tell me about the craft we are
going in. A good deal depends on that."

Tom hardly knew what to answer. He recalled what Mr. Sharp had said
about not wanting to tell Captain Weston, until the last moment, that
they were going in a submarine, for fear the old seaman (for he was old
in point of service though not in years) might not care to risk an
under-water trip. Therefore Tom hesitated. Seeing it, Captain Weston
remarked quietly:

"I mean, what type is your submarine? Does it go by compressed air, or
water power?"

"How do you know it's a submarine?" asked the young inventor quickly,
and in some confusion.

"Easy enough. When Mr. Berg thought he was pumping me, I was getting a
lot of information from him. He told me about the submarine his firm
was building, and, naturally, he mentioned yours. One thing led to
another until I got a pretty good idea of your craft. What do you call
it?"

"The Advance."

"Good name. I like it, if you don't mind speaking of it."

"We were afraid you wouldn't like it," commented Tom.

"What, the name?"

"No, the idea of going in a submarine."

"Oh," and Captain Weston laughed. "Well, it takes more than that to
frighten me, if you'll excuse the expression.  I've always had a
hankering to go under the surface, after so many years spent on top.
Once or twice I came near going under, whether I wanted to or not, in
wrecks, but I think I prefer your way. Now, if you're all done, and
don't mind me speaking of it, I think we'll start for your place. We
must hustle, for Berg may yet get on our trail, even if he has got the
wrong route," and he laughed again.

It was no small relief to Mr Swift and Mr. Sharp to learn that Captain
Weston had no objections to a submarine, as they feared he might have.
The captain, in his diffident manner, made friends at once with the
treasure-hunters, and he and Mr. Damon struck up quite an acquaintance.
Tom told of his meeting with the seaman, and the latter related, with
much gusto, the story of how he had fooled Mr. Berg.

"Well, perhaps you'd like to come and take a look at the craft that is
to be our home while we're beneath the water," suggested Mr. Swift and
the sailor assenting, the aged inventor, with much pride, assisted by
Tom, pointed out on the Advance the features of interest. Captain
Weston gave hearty approval, making one or two minor suggestions, which
were carried out.

"And so you launch her to-morrow," he concluded, when he had completed
the inspection "Well, I hope it's a success, if I may be permitted to
say so."

There were busy times around the machine shop next day. So much secrecy
had been maintained that none of the residents, or visitors to the
coast resort, were aware that in their midst was such a wonderful craft
as the submarine. The last touches were put on the under-water ship;
the ways, leading from the shop to the creek, were well greased, and
all was in readiness for the launching. The tide would soon be at
flood, and then the boat would slide down the timbers (at least, that
was the hope of all), and would float in the element meant to receive
her. It was decided that no one should be aboard when the launching
took place, as there was an element of risk attached, since it was not
known just how buoyant the craft was. It was expected she would float,
until the filled tanks took her to the bottom, but there was no telling.

"It will be flood tide now in ten minutes," remarked Captain Weston
quietly, looking at his watch. Then he took an observation through the
telescope. "No hostile ships hanging in the offing," he reported. "All
is favorable, if you don't mind me saying so," and he seemed afraid
lest his remark might give offense.

"Get ready," ordered Mr. Swift. "Tom, see that the ropes are all
clear," for it had been decided to ease the Advance down into the water
by means of strong cables and windlasses, as the creek was so narrow
that the submarine, if launched in the usual way, would poke her nose
into the opposite mud bank and stick there.

"All clear," reported the young inventor.

"High tide!" exclaimed the captain a moment later, snapping shut his
watch.

"Let go!" ordered Mr. Swift, and the various windlasses manned by the
inventor, Tom and the others began to unwind their ropes. Slowly the
ship slid along the greased ways.  Slowly she approached the water. How
anxiously they all watched her! Nearer and nearer her blunt nose, with
the electric propulsion plate and the auxiliary propeller, came to the
creek, the waters of which were quiet now, awaiting the turn of the
tide.

Now little waves lapped the steel sides. It was the first contact of
the Advance with her native element.

"Pay out the rope faster!" cried Mr. Swift.

The windlasses were turned more quickly. Foot by foot the craft slid
along until, with a final rush, the stern left the ways and the
submarine was afloat. Now would come the test. Would she ride on an
even keel, or sink out of sight, or turn turtle? They all ran to the
water's edge, Tom in the lead.

"Hurrah!" suddenly yelled the lad, trying to stand on his head. "She
floats! She's a success! Come on! Let's get aboard!"

For, true enough, the Advance was riding like a duck on the water. She
had been proportioned just right, and her lines were perfect. She rode
as majestically as did any ship destined to sail on the surface, and
not intended to do double duty.

"Come on, we must moor her to the pier," directed Mr. Sharp. "The tide
will turn in a few minutes and take her out to sea."

He and Tom entered a small boat, and soon the submarine was tied to a
small dock that had been built for the purpose.

"Now to try the engine," suggested Mr. Swift, who was almost trembling
with eagerness; for the completion of the ship meant much to him.

"One moment," begged Captain Weston. "If you don't mind, I'll take an
observation," he went on, and he swept the horizon with his telescope.
"All clear," he reported. "I think we may go aboard and make a trial
trip."

Little time was lost in entering the cabin and engine-room, Garret
Jackson accompanying the party to aid with the machinery. It did not
take long to start the motors, dynamos and the big gasolene engine that
was the vital part of the craft. A little water was admitted to the
tanks for ballast, since the food and other supplies were not yet on
board. The Advance now floated with the deck aft of the conning tower
showing about two feet above the surface of the creek. Mr. Swift and
Tom entered the pilot house.

"Start the engines," ordered the aged inventor, "and we'll try my new
system of positive and negative electrical propulsion."

There was a hum and whir in the body of the ship beneath the feet of
Tom and his father. Captain Weston stood on the little deck near the
conning tower.

"All ready?" asked the youth through the speaking tube to Mr. Sharp and
Mr. Jackson in the engine-room.

"All ready," came the answer.

Tom threw over the connecting lever, while his father grasped the
steering wheel. The Advance shot forward, moving swiftly along, about
half submerged.

"She goes! She goes!" cried Tom.

"She certainly does, if I may be permitted to say so," was the calm
contribution of Captain Weston. "I congratulate you."

Faster and faster went the new craft. Mr. Swift headed her toward the
open sea, but stopped just before passing out of the creek, as he was
not yet ready to venture into deep water.

"I want to test the auxiliary propellers," he said. After a little
longer trial of the electric propulsion plates, which were found to
work satisfactorily, sending the submarine up and down the creek at a
fast rate, the screws, such as are used on most submarines, were put
into gear.  They did well, but were not equal to the plates, nor was so
much expected of them.

"I am perfectly satisfied," announced Mr. Swift as he once more headed
the boat to sea. "I think, Captain Weston, you had better go below now."

"Why so?"

"Because I am going to completely submerge the craft. Tom, close the
conning tower door. Perhaps you will come in here with us, Captain
Weston, though it will be rather a tight fit."

"Thank you, I will. I want to see how it feels to be in a pilot house
under water."

Tom closed the water-tight door of the conning tower. Word was sent
through the tube to the engine-room that a more severe test of the ship
was about to be made. The craft was now outside the line of breakers
and in the open sea.

"Is everything ready, Tom?" asked his father in a quiet voice.

"Everything," replied the lad nervously, for the anticipation of being
about to sink below the surface was telling on them all, even on the
calm, old sea captain.

"Then open the tanks and admit the water," ordered Mr. Swift.

His son turned a valve and adjusted some levers. There was a hissing
sound, and the Advance began sinking. She was about to dive beneath the
surface of the ocean, and those aboard her were destined to go through
a terrible experience before she rose again.




Chapter Eleven

On the Ocean Bed


Lower and lower sank the submarine. There was a swirling and foaming of
the water as she went down, caused by the air bubbles which the craft
carried with her in her descent.  Only the top of the conning tower was
out of water now, the ocean having closed over the deck and the rounded
back of the boat. Had any one been watching they would have imagined
that an accident was taking place.

In the pilot house, with its thick glass windows, Tom, his father and
Captain Weston looked over the surface of the ocean, which every minute
was coming nearer and nearer to them.

"We'll be all under in a few seconds," spoke Tom in a solemn voice, as
he listened to the water hissing into the tanks.

"Yes, and then we can see what sort of progress we will make," added
Mr. Swift. "Everything is going fine, though," he went on cheerfully.
"I believe I have a good boat."

"There is no doubt of it in my mind," remarked Captain Weston, and Tom
felt a little disappointed that the sailor did not shout out some such
expression as "Shiver my timbers!" or "Keel-haul the main braces,
there, you lubber!" But Captain Weston was not that kind of a sailor,
though his usually quiet demeanor could be quickly dropped on
necessity, as Tom learned later.

A few minutes more and the waters closed over the top of the conning
tower. The Advance was completely submerged.  Through the thick glass
windows of the pilot house the occupants looked out into the greenish
water that swirled about them; but it could not enter. Then, as the
boat went lower, the light from above gradually died out, and the
semi-darkness gave place to gloom.

"Turn on the electrics and the searchlight, Tom," directed his father.

There was the click of a switch, and the conning tower was flooded with
light. But as this had the effect of preventing the three from peering
out into the water, just as one in a lighted room cannot look out into
the night, Tom shut them off and switched on the great searchlight.
This projected its powerful beams straight ahead and there, under the
ocean, was a pathway of illumination for the treasure-seekers.

"Fine!" cried Captain Weston, with more enthusiasm than he had yet
manifested. "That's great, if you don't mind me mentioning it. How deep
are we?"

Tom glanced at a gage on the side of the pilot tower.

"Only about sixty feet," he answered.

"Then don't go any deeper!" cried the captain hastily. "I know these
waters around here, and that's about all the depth you've got. You'll
be on the bottom in a minute."

"I intend to get on the bottom after a while," said Mr. Swift, "but not
here. I want to try for a greater distance under water before I come to
rest on the ocean's bed. But I think we are deep enough for a test.
Tom, close the tank intake pipes and we'll see how the Advance will
progress when fully submerged."

The hissing stopped, and then, wishing to see how the motors and other
machinery would work, the aged inventor and his son, accompanied by
Captain Weston, descended from the conning tower, by means of an inner
stairway, to the interior of the ship. The submarine could be steered
and managed from below or above. She was now floating about sixty-five
feet below the surface of the bay.

"Well, how do you like it?" asked Tom of Mr. Damon, as he saw his
friend in an easy chair in the living-room or main cabin of the craft,
looking out of one of the plate-glass windows on the side.

"Bless my spectacles, it's the most wonderful thing I ever dreamed of!"
cried the queer character, as he peered at the mass of water before
him. "To think that I'm away down under the surface, and yet as dry as
a bone. Bless my necktie, but it's great! What are we going to do now?"

"Go forward," replied the young inventor.

"Perhaps I had better make an observation," suggested Captain Weston,
taking his telescope from under his arm, where he had carried it since
entering the craft, and opening it. "We may run afoul of something, if
you don't mind me mentioning such a disagreeable subject." Then, as he
thought of the impossibility of using his glass under water, he closed
it.

"I shall have little use for this here, I'm afraid," he remarked with a
smile. "Well, there's some consolation.  We're not likely to meet many
ships in this part of the ocean. Other vessels are fond enough of
remaining on the surface. I fancy we shall have the depths to
ourselves, unless we meet a Government submarine, and they are hardly
able to go as deep as we can. No, I guess we won't run into anything
and I can put this glass away."

"Unless we run into Berg and his crowd," suggested Tom in a low voice.

"Ha! ha!" laughed Captain Weston, for he did not want Mr. Swift to
worry over the unscrupulous agent. "No, I don't believe we'll meet
them, Tom. I guess Berg is trying to work out the longitude and
latitude I gave him. I wish I could see his face when he realizes that
he's been deceived by that fake map."

"Well, I hope he doesn't discover it too soon and trail us," went on
the lad. "But they're going to start the machinery now. I suppose you
and I had better take charge of the steering of the craft. Dad will
want to be in the engine-room."

"All right," replied the captain, and he moved forward with the lad to
a small compartment, shut off from the living-room, that served as a
pilot house when the conning tower was not used. The same levers,
wheels and valves were there as up above, and the submarine could be
managed as well from there as from the other place.

"Is everything all right?" asked Mr Swift as he went into the
engine-room, where Garret Jackson and Mr. Sharp were busy with oil cans.

"Everything," replied the balloonist. "Are you going to start now?"

"Yes, we're deep enough for a speed trial. We'll go out to sea,
however, and try for a lower depth record, as soon as there's enough
water. Start the engine."

A moment later the powerful electric currents were flowing into the
forward and aft plates, and the Advance began to gather way, forging
through the water.

"Straight ahead, out to sea, Tom," called his father to him.

"Aye, aye, sir," responded the youth.

"Ha! Quite seaman-like, if you don't mind a reference to it," commented
Captain Weston with a smile. "Mind your helm, boy, for you don't want
to poke her nose into a mud bank, or run up on a shoal."

"Suppose you steer?" suggested the lad. "I'd rather take lessons for a
while."

"All right. Perhaps it will be safer. I know these waters from the top,
though I can't say as much for the bottom.  However, I know where the
shoals are."

The powerful searchlight was turned, so as to send its beams along the
path which the submarine was to follow, and then, as she gathered
speed, she shot ahead, gliding through the waters like a fish.

Mr. Damon divided his time between the forward pilot-room, the
living-apartment, and the place where Mr. Swift, Garret Jackson and Mr.
Sharp were working over the engines. Every few minutes he would bless
some part of himself, his clothing, or the ship. Finally the old man
settled down to look through the plate-glass windows in the main
apartment.

On and on went the submarine. She behaved perfectly, and was under
excellent control. Some times Tom, at the request of his father, would
send her toward the surface by means of the deflecting rudder. Then she
would dive to the bottom again. Once, as a test, she was sent obliquely
to the surface, her tower just emerging, and then she darted downward
again, like a porpoise that had come up to roll over, and suddenly
concluded to seek the depths. In fact, had any one seen the maneuver
they would have imagined the craft was a big fish disporting itself.

Captain Weston remained at Tom's side, giving him instructions, and
watching the compass in order to direct the steering so as to avoid
collisions. For an hour or more the craft was sent almost straight
ahead at medium speed.  Then Mr. Swift, joining his son and the
captain, remarked:

"How about depth of water here, Captain Weston?"

"You've got more than a mile."

"Good! Then I'm going down to the bottom of the sea! Tom, fill the
tanks still more.

"Aye, aye, sir," answered the lad gaily. "Now for a new experience!"

"And use the deflecting rudder, also," advised his father.  "That will
hasten matters."

Five minutes later there was a slight jar noticeable.

"Bless my soul! What's that?" cried Mr. Damon. "Have we hit something?"

"Yes," answered Tom with a smile.

"What, for gracious sake?"

"The bottom of the sea. We're on the bed of the ocean."




Chapter Twelve

For a Breath of Air


They could hardly realize it, yet the depth-gage told the story. It
registered a distance below the surface of the ocean of five thousand
seven hundred feet--a little over a mile. The Advance had actually come
to rest on the bottom of the Atlantic.

"Hurrah!" cried Tom. "Let's get on the diving suits, dad, and walk
about on land under water for a change."

"No," said Mr. Swift soberly. "We will hardly have time for that now.
Besides, the suits are not yet fitted with the automatic air-tanks, and
we can't use them. There are still some things to do before we start on
our treasure cruise.  But I want to see how the plates are standing
this pressure."

The Advance was made with a triple hull, the spaces between the layers
of plates being filled with a secret material, capable of withstanding
enormous pressure, as were also the plates themselves. Mr. Swift, aided
by Mr. Jackson and Captain Weston, made a thorough examination, and
found that not a drop of water had leaked in, nor was there the least
sign that any of the plates had given way under the terrific strain.

"She's as tight as a drum, if you will allow me to make that
comparison," remarked Captain Weston modestly. "I couldn't ask for a
dryer ship."

"Well, let's take a look around by means the searchlight and the
observation windows, and then we'll go back," suggested Mr. Swift. "It
will take about two days to get the stores and provisions aboard and
rig up the diving suits; then we will start for the sunken treasure."

There were several powerful searchlights on the Advance, so arranged
that the bow, stern or either side could be illuminated independently.
There were also observation windows near each light.

In turn the powerful rays were cast first at the bow and then aft. In
the gleams could be seen the sandy bed of the ocean, covered with
shells of various kinds. Great crabs walked around on their long,
jointed legs, and Tom saw some lobsters that would have brought joy to
the heart of a fisherman.

"Look at the big fish!" cried Mr. Damon suddenly, and he pointed to
some dark, shadowy forms that swam up to the glass windows, evidently
puzzled by the light.

"Porpoises," declared Captain Weston briefly, "a whole school of them."

The fish seemed suddenly to multiply, and soon those in the submarine
felt curious tremors running through the whole craft.

"The fish are rubbing up against it," cried Tom. "They must think we
came down here to allow them to scratch their backs on the steel
plates."

For some time they remained on the bottom, watching the wonderful sight
of the fishes that swam all about them.

"Well, I think we may as well rise," announced Mr. Swift, after they
had been on the bottom about an hour, moving here and there. "We didn't
bring any provisions, and I'm getting hungry, though I don't know how
the others of you feel about it."

"Bless my dinner-plate, I could eat, too!" cried Mr. Damon. "Go up, by
all means. We'll get enough of under-water travel once we start for the
treasure."

"Send her up, Tom," called his father. "I want to make a few notes on
some needed changes and improvements."

Tom entered the lower pilot house, and turned the valve that opened the
tanks. He also pulled the lever that started the pumps, so that the
water ballast would be more quickly emptied, as that would render the
submarine buoyant, and she would quickly shoot to the surface. To the
surprise of the lad, however, there followed no outrushing of the
water. The Advance remained stationary on the ocean bed. Mr. Swift
looked up from his notes.

"Didn't you hear me ask you to send her up, Tom?" he inquired mildly.

"I did, dad, but something seems to be the matter," was the reply.

"Matter? What do you mean?" and the aged inventor hastened to where his
son and Captain Weston were at the wheels, valves and levers.

"Why, the tanks won't empty, and the pumps don't seem to work."

"Let me try," suggested Mr. Swift, and he pulled the various handles.
There was no corresponding action of the machinery.

"That's odd," he remarked in a curious voice "Perhaps something has
gone wrong with the connections. Go look in the engine-room, and ask
Mr. Sharp if everything is all right there."

Tom made a quick trip, returning to report that the dynamos, motors and
gas engine were running perfectly.

"Try to work the tank levers and pumps from the conning tower,"
suggested Captain Weston. "Sometimes I've known the steam steering gear
to play tricks like that."

Tom hurried up the circular stairway into the tower. He pulled the
levers and shifted the valves and wheels there.  But there was no
emptying of the water tanks. The weight and pressure of water in them
still held the submarine on the bottom of the sea, more than a mile
from the surface. The pumps in the engine-room were working at top
speed, but there was evidently something wrong in the connections.  Mr.
Swift quickly came to this conclusion.

"We must repair it at once," he said. "Tom, come to the engine-room.
You and I, with Mr. Jackson and Mr. Sharp, will soon have it in shape
again."

"Is there any danger?" asked Mr. Damon in a perturbed voice. "Bless my
soul, it's unlucky to have an accident on our trial trip."

"Oh, we must expect accidents," declared Mr. Swift with a smile. "This
is nothing."

But it proved to be more difficult than he had imagined to re-establish
the connection between the pumps and the tanks. The valves, too, had
clogged or jammed, and as the pressure outside the ship was so great,
the water would not run out of itself. It must be forced.

For an hour or more the inventor, his son and the others, worked away.
They could accomplish nothing. Tom looked anxiously at his parent when
the latter paused in his efforts.

"Don't worry," advised the aged inventor. "It's got to come right
sooner or later."

Just then Mr. Damon, who had been wandering about the ship, entered the
engine-room.

"Do you know," he said, "you ought to open a window, or something."

"Why, what's the matter?" asked Tom quickly, looking to see if the odd
man was joking.

"Well, of course I don't exactly mean a window," explained Mr. Damon,
"but we need fresh air."

"Fresh air!" There was a startled note in Mr. Swift's voice as he
repeated the words.

"Yes, I can hardly breathe in the living-room, and it's not much better
here."

"Why, there ought to be plenty of fresh air," went on the inventor. "It
is renewed automatically."

Tom jumped up and looked at an indicator. He uttered a startled cry.

"The air hasn't been changed in the last hour!" he exclaimed. "It is
bad. There's not enough oxygen in it. I notice it, now that I've
stopped working. The gage indicates it, too. The automatic air-changer
must have stopped working. I'll fix it."

He hurried to the machine which was depended on to supply fresh air to
the submarine.

"Why, the air tanks are empty!" the young inventor cried.  "We haven't
any more air except what is in the ship now!"

"And we're rapidly breathing that up," added Captain Weston solemnly.

"Can't you make more?" cried Mr. Damon. "I thought you said you could
make oxygen aboard the ship."

"We can," answered Mr. Swift, "but I did not bring along a supply of
the necessary chemicals. I did not think we would be submerged long
enough for that. But there should have been enough in the reserve tank
to last several days. How about it, Tom?"

"It's all leaked out, or else it wasn't filled," was the despairing
answer. "All the air we have is what's in the ship, and we can't make
more."

The treasure-seekers looked at each other. It was an awful situation.

"Then the only thing to do is to fix the machinery and rise to the
surface," said Mr. Sharp simply. "We can have all the air we want,
then."

"Yes, but the machinery doesn't seem possible of being fixed," spoke
Tom in a low voice.

"We must do it!" cried his father.

They set to work again with fierce energy, laboring for their very
lives. They all knew that they could not long remain in the ship
without oxygen. Nor could they desert it to go to the surface, for the
moment they left the protection of the thick steel sides the terrible
pressure of the water would kill them. Nor were the diving suits
available. They must stay in the craft and die a miserable death--unless
the machinery could be repaired and the Advance sent to the surface.
The emergency expanding lifting tank was not yet in working order.

More frantically they toiled, trying every device that was suggested to
the mechanical minds of Tom, his father, Mr. Sharp or Mr. Jackson, to
make the pumps work. But something was wrong. More and more foul grew
the air. They were fairly gasping now. It was  difficult to breathe, to
say nothing of working, in that atmosphere. The thought of their
terrible position was in the minds of all.

"Oh, for one breath of fresh air!" cried Mr. Damon, who seemed to
suffer more than any of the others. Grim death was hovering around
them, imprisoned as they were on the ocean's bed, over a mile from the
surface.




Chapter Thirteen

Off for the Treasure


Suddenly Tom, after a moment's pause, seized a wrench and began
loosening some nuts.

"What are you doing?" asked his father faintly, for he was being
weakened by the vitiated atmosphere.

"I'm going to take this valve apart," replied his son. "We haven't
looked there for the trouble. Maybe it's out of order."

He attacked the valve with energy, but his hands soon lagged. The lack
of oxygen was telling on him. He could no longer work quickly.

"I'll help," murmured Mr. Sharp thickly. He took a wrench, but no
sooner had he loosened one nut than he toppled over.  "I'm all in," he
murmured feebly.

"Is he dead?" cried Mr. Damon, himself gasping.

"No, only fainted. But he soon will be dead, and so will all of us, if
we don't get fresh air," remarked Captain Weston. "Lie down on the
floor, every one. There is a little fairly good air there. It's heavier
than the air we've breathed, and we can exist on it for a little
longer. Poor Sharp was so used to breathing the rarified air of high
altitudes that he can't stand this heavy atmosphere."

Mr. Damon was gasping worse than ever, and so was Mr. Swift. The
balloonist lay an inert heap on the floor, with Captain Weston trying
to force a few drops of stimulant down his throat.

With a fierce determination in his heart, but with fingers that almost
refused to do his bidding, Tom once more sought to open the big valve.
He felt sure the trouble was located there, as they had tried to locate
it in every other place without avail.

"I'll help," said Mr. Jackson in a whisper. He, too, was hardly able to
move.

More and more devoid of oxygen grew the air. It gave Tom a sense as if
his head was filled, and ready to burst with every breath he drew.
Still he struggled to loosen the nuts.  There were but four more now,
and he took off three while Mr. Jackson removed one. The young inventor
lifted off the valve cover, though it felt like a ton weight to him. He
gave a glance inside.

"Here's the trouble!" he murmured. "The valve's clogged.  No wonder it
wouldn't work. The pumps couldn't force the water out."

It was the work of only a minute to adjust the valve. Then Tom and the
engineer managed to get the cover back on.

How they inserted the bolts and screwed the nuts in place they never
could remember clearly afterward, but they managed it somehow, with
shaking, trembling hands and eyes that grew more and more dim.

"Now start the pumps!" cried Tom faintly. "The tanks will be emptied,
and we can get to the surface."

Mr. Sharp was still unconscious, nor was Mr. Swift able to help. He lay
with his eyes closed. Garret Jackson, however, managed to crawl to the
engine-room, and soon the clank of machinery told Tom that the pumps
were in motion. The lad staggered to the pilot house and threw the
levers over. An instant later there was the hissing of water as it
rushed from the ballast tanks. The submarine shivered, as though
disliking to leave the bottom of the sea, and then slowly rose. As the
pumps worked more rapidly, and the sea was sent from the tank in great
volumes, the boat fairly shot to the surface. Tom was ready to open the
conning tower and let in fresh air as soon as the top was above the
surface.

With a bound the Advance reached the top. Tom frantically worked the
worm gear that opened the tower. In rushed the fresh, life-giving air,
and the treasure-hunters filled their lungs with it.

And it was only just in time, for Mr. Sharp was almost gone. He quickly
revived, as did the others, when they could breathe as much as they
wished of the glorious oxygen.

"That was a close call," commented Mr. Swift. "We'll not go below again
until I have provided for all emergencies. I should have seen to the
air tanks and the expanding one before going below. We'll sail home on
the surface now."

The submarine was put about and headed for her dock. On the way she
passed a small steamer, and the passengers looked down in wonder at the
strange craft.

When the Advance reached the secluded creek where she had been
launched, her passengers had fully recovered from their terrible
experience, though the nerves of Mr. Swift and Mr. Damon were not at
ease for some days thereafter.

"I should never have made a submerged test without making sure that we
had a reserve supply of air," remarked the aged inventor. "I will not
be caught that way again. But I can't understand how the pump valve got
out of order."

"Maybe some one tampered with it," suggested Mr. Damon.  "Could Andy
Foger, any of the Happy Harry gang, or the rival gold-seekers have done
it?"

"I hardly think so," answered Tom. "The place has been too carefully
guarded since Berg and Andy once sneaked in. I think it was just an
accident, but I have thought of a plan whereby such accidents can be
avoided in the future. It needs a simple device."

"Better patent it," suggested Mr. Sharp with a smile.

"Maybe I will," replied the young inventor. "But not now.  We haven't
time, if we intend to get fitted out for our trip."

"No; I should say the sooner we started the better," remarked Captain
Weston. "That is, if you don't mind me speaking about it," he added
gently, and the others smiled, for his diffident comments were only a
matter of habit.

The first act of the adventurers, after tying the submarine at the
dock, was to proceed with the loading of the food and supplies. Tom and
Mr. Damon looked to this, while Mr. Swift and Mr. Sharp made some
necessary changes to the machinery. The next day the young inventor
attached his device to the pump valve, and the loading of the craft was
continued.

All was in readiness for the gold-seeking expedition a week later.
Captain Weston had carefully charted the route they were to follow, and
it was decided to move along on the surface for the first day, so as to
get well out to sea before submerging the craft. Then it would sink
below the surface, and run along under the water until the wreck was
reached, rising at times, as needed, to renew the air supply.

With sufficient stores and provisions aboard to last several months, if
necessary, though they did not expect to be gone more than sixty days
at most, the adventurers arose early one morning and went down to the
dock. Mr. Jackson was not to accompany them. He did not care about a
submarine trip, he said, and Mr. Swift desired him to remain at the
seaside cottage and guard the shops, which contained much valuable
machinery. The airship was also left there.

"Well, are we all ready?" asked Mr. Swift of the little party of
gold-seekers, as they were about to enter the conning tower hatchway of
the submarine.

"All ready, dad," responded his son.

"Then let's get aboard," proposed Captain Weston. "But first let me
take an observation."

He swept the horizon with his telescope, and Tom noticed that the
sailor kept it fixed on one particular spot for some time.

"Did you see anything?" asked the lad.

"Well, there is a boat lying off there," was the answer.  "And some one
is observing us through a glass. But I don't believe it matters.
Probably they're only trying to see what sort of an odd fish we are."

"All aboard, then," ordered Mr. Swift, and they went into the
submarine. Tom and his father, with Captain Weston, remained in the
conning tower. The signal was given, the electricity flowed into the
forward and aft plates, and the Advance shot ahead on the surface.

The sailor raised his telescope once more and peered through a window
in the tower. He uttered an exclamation.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom.

"That other ship--a small steamer--is weighing anchor and seems to be
heading this way," was the reply.

"Maybe it's some one hired by Berg to follow us and trace our
movements," suggested Tom.

"If it is we'll fool them," added his father. "Just keep an eye on
them, captain, and I think we can show them a trick or two in a few
minutes."

Faster shot the Advance through the water. She had started on her way
to get the gold from the sunken wreck, but already enemies were on the
trail of the adventurers, for the ship the sailor had noticed was
steaming after them.




Chapter Fourteen

In the Diving Suits


There was no doubt that the steamer was coming after the submarine.
Several observations Captain Weston made confirmed this, and he
reported the fact to Mr. Swift.

"Well, we'll change our plans, then," said the inventor.  "Instead of
sailing on the surface we'll go below. But first let them get near so
they may have the benefit of seeing what we do. Tom, go below, please,
and tell Mr. Sharp to get every thing in readiness for a quick descent.
We'll slow up a bit now, and let them get nearer to us."

The speed of the submarine was reduced, and in a short time the strange
steamer had overhauled her, coming to within hailing distance.

Mr. Swift signaled for the machinery to stop and the submarine came to
a halt on the surface, bobbing about like a half-submerged bottle. The
inventor opened a bull's-eye in the tower, and called to a man on the
bridge of the steamer:

"What are you following us for?"

"Following you?" repeated the man, for the strange vessel had also come
to a stop. "We're not following you."

"It looks like it," replied Mr. Swift. "You'd better give it up."

"I guess the waters are free," was the quick retort.  "We'll follow you
if we like."

"Will you? Then come on!" cried the inventor as he quickly closed the
heavy glass window and pulled a lever. An instant later the submarine
began to sink, and Mr. Swift could not help laughing as, just before
the tower went under water, he had a glimpse of the astonished face of
the man on the bridge. The latter had evidently not expected such a
move as that.

Lower and lower in the water went the craft, until it was about two
hundred feet below the surface. Then Mr. Swift left the conning tower,
descended to the main part of the ship, and asked Tom and Captain
Weston to take charge of the pilot house.

"Send her ahead, Tom," his father said. "That fellow up above is
rubbing his eyes yet, wondering where we are, I suppose."

Forward shot the Advance under water, the powerful electrical plates
pulling and pushing her on the way to secure the sunken gold.

All that morning a fairly moderate rate of speed was maintained, as it
was thought best not to run the new machinery too fast.

Dinner was eaten about a quarter of a mile below the surface, but no
one inside the submarine would ever have known it. Electric lights made
the place as brilliant as could be desired, and the food, which Tom and
Mr. Damon prepared, was equal to any that could have been served on
land. After the meal they opened the shutters over the windows in the
sides of the craft, and looked at the myriads of fishes swimming past,
as the creatures were disclosed in the glare of the searchlight.

That night they were several hundred miles on their journey, for the
craft was speedy, and leaving Tom and Captain Weston to take the first
watch, the others went to bed.

"Bless my soul, but it does seem odd, though, to go to bed under water,
like a fish," remarked Mr. Damon. "If my wife knew this she would worry
to death. She thinks I'm off automobiling. But this isn't half as
dangerous as riding in a car that's always getting out of order. A
submarine for mine, every time."

"Wait until we get to the end of this trip," advised Tom.  "I guess
you'll find almost as many things can happen in a submarine as can in
an auto," and future events were to prove the young inventor to be
right.

Everything worked well that night, and the ship made good progress.
They rose to the surface the next morning to make sure of their
position, and to get fresh air, though they did not really need the
latter, as the reserve supply had not been drawn on, and was sufficient
for several days, now that the oxygen machine had been put in running
order.

On the second day the ship was sent to the bottom and halted there, as
Mr. Swift wished to try the new diving suits. These were made of a new,
light, but very strong metal to withstand the pressure of a great depth.

Tom, Mr. Sharp and Captain Weston donned the suits, the others agreeing
to wait until they saw how the first trial resulted. Then, too, it was
necessary for some one acquainted with the machinery to remain in the
ship to operate the door and water chamber through which the divers had
to pass to get out.

The usual plan, with some changes, was followed in letting the three
out of the boat, and on to the bottom of the sea.  They entered a
chamber in the side of the submarine, water was gradually admitted
until it equaled in pressure that outside, then an outer door was
opened by means of levers, and they could step out.

It was a curious sensation to Tom and the others to feel that they were
actually walking along the bed of the ocean.  All around them was the
water, and as they turned on the small electric lights in their
helmets, which lights were fed by storage batteries fastened to the
diving suits, they saw the fish, big and little, swarm up to them,
doubtless astonished at the odd creatures which had entered their
domain. On the sand of the bottom, and in and out among the shells and
rocks, crawled great spider crabs, big eels and other odd creatures
seldom seen on the surface of the water.  The three divers found no
difficulty in breathing, as there were air tanks fastened to their
shoulders, and a constant supply of oxygen was fed through pipes into
the helmets. The pressure of water did not bother them, and after the
first sensation Tom began to enjoy the novelty of it. At first the
inability to speak to his companions seemed odd, but he soon got so he
could make signs and motions, and be understood.

They walked about for some time, and once the lad came upon a part of a
wrecked vessel buried deep in the sand.  There was no telling what ship
it was, nor how long it had been there, and after silently viewing it,
they continued on.

"It was great!" were the first words Tom uttered when he and the others
were once more inside the submarine and had removed the suits. "If we
can only walk around the wreck of the Boldero that way, we'll have all
the gold out of her in no time. There are no life-lines nor air-hose to
bother with in these diving suits."

"They certainly are a success," conceded Mr. Sharp.

"Bless my topknot!" cried Mr. Damon. "I'll try it next time. I've
always wanted to be a diver, and now I have the chance."

The trip was resumed after the diving chamber had been closed, and on
the third day Captain Weston announced, after a look at his chart, that
they were nearing the Bahama Islands.

"We'll have to be careful not to run into any of the small keys," he
said, that being the name for the many little points of land, hardly
large enough to be dignified by the name of island. "We must keep a
constant lookout."

Fortune favored them, though once, when Tom was steering, he narrowly
avoided ramming a coral reef with the submarine.  The searchlight
showed it to him just in time, and he sheered off with a thumping in
his heart.

The course was changed from south to east, so as to get ready to swing
out of the way of the big shoulder of South America where Brazil takes
up so much room, and as they went farther and farther toward the
equator, they noticed that the waters teemed more and more with fish,
some beautiful, some ugly and fear-inspiring, and some such monsters
that it made one shudder to look at them, even through the thick glass
of the bulls-eye windows.




Chapter Fifteen

At the Tropical Island


It was on the evening of the fourth day later that Captain Weston, who
was steering the craft, suddenly called out:

"Land ho!"

"Where away?" inquired Tom quickly, for he had read that this was the
proper response to make.

"Dead ahead," answered the sailor with a smile. "Shall we make for it,
if I may be allowed the question?"

"What land is it likely to be?" Mr. Swift wanted to know.

"Oh, some small tropical island," replied the seafaring man. "It isn't
down on the charts. Probably it's too small to note. I should say it
was a coral island, but we may be able to find a spring of fresh water
there, and some fruit."

"Then we'll land there," decided the inventor. "We can use some fresh
water, though our distilling and ice apparatus does very well."

They made the island just at dusk, and anchored in a little lagoon,
where there was a good depth of water.

"Now for shore!" cried Tom, as the submarine swung around on the chain.
"It looks like a fine place. I hope there are cocoanuts and oranges
here. Shall I get out the electric launch, dad?"

"Yes, you may, and we'll all go ashore. It will do us good to stretch
our legs a bit."

Carried in a sort of pocket on the deck of the submarine was a small
electric boat, capable of holding six. It could be slid from the
pocket, or depression, into the water without the use of davits, and,
with Mr. Sharp to aid him, Tom soon had the little craft afloat. The
batteries were already charged, and just as the sun was going down the
gold-seekers entered the launch and were soon on shore.

They found a good spring of water close at hand, and Tom's wish
regarding the cocoanuts was realized, though there were no oranges. The
lad took several of the delicious nuts, and breaking them open poured
the milk into a collapsible cup he carried, drinking it eagerly. The
others followed his example, and pronounced it the best beverage they
had tasted in a long time.

The island was a typical tropical one, not very large, and it did not
appear to have been often visited by man. There were no animals to be
seen, but myriads of birds flew here and there amid the trees, the
trailing vines and streamers of moss.

"Let's spend a day here to-morrow and explore it," proposed Tom, and
his father nodded an assent. They went back to the submarine as night
was beginning to gather, and in the cabin, after supper, talked over
the happenings of their trip so far.

"Do you think we'll have any trouble getting the gold out of the
wrecked vessel?" asked Tom of Captain Weston, after a pause.

"Well, it's hard to say. I couldn't learn just how the wreck lays,
whether it's on a sandy or a rocky bottom. If the latter, it won't be
so hard, but if the sand has worked in and partly covered it, we'll
have some difficulties, if I may be permitted to say so. However, don't
borrow trouble.  We're not there yet, though at the rate we're
traveling it won't be long before we arrive."

No watch was set that night, as it was not considered necessary. Tom
was the first to arise in the morning, and he went out on the deck for
a breath of fresh air before breakfast.

He looked off at the beautiful little island, and as his eye took in
all of the little lagoon where the submarine was anchored he uttered a
startled cry.

And well he might, for, not a hundred yards away, and nearer to the
island than was the Advance, floated another craft--another craft,
almost similar in shape and size to the one built by the Swifts. Tom
rubbed his eyes to make sure he was not seeing double. No, there could
be no mistake about it. There was another submarine at the tropical
island.

As he looked, some one emerged from the conning tower of the second
craft. The figure seemed strangely familiar. Tom knew in a moment who
it was--Addison Berg. The agent saw the lad, too, and taking off his
cap and making a mocking bow, he called out:

"Good morning! Have you got the gold yet?"

Tom did not know what to answer. Seeing the other submarine, at an
island where he had supposed they would not be disturbed, was
disconcerting enough, but to be greeted by Berg was altogether too
much, Tom thought. His fears that the rival boat builders would follow
had not been without foundation.

"Rather surprised to see us, aren't you?" went on Mr. Berg, smiling.

"Rather," admitted Tom, choking over the word.

"Thought you'd be," continued Berg. "We didn't expect to meet you so
soon, but we're glad we did. I don't altogether like hunting for sunken
treasure, with such indefinite directions as I have."

"You--are going to--" stammered Tom, and then he concluded it would be
best not to say anything. But his talk had been heard inside the
submarine. His father came to the foot of the conning tower stairway.

"To whom are you speaking, Tom?" he asked.

"They're here, dad," was the youth's answer.

"Here? Who are here?"

"Berg and his employers. They've followed us, dad."




Chapter Sixteen

"We'll Race You For It"


Mr. Swift hurried up on deck. He was accompanied by Captain Weston. At
the sight of Tom's father, Mr. Berg, who had been joined by two other
men, called out:

"You see we also concluded to give up the trial for the Government
prize, Mr. Swift. We decided there was more money in something else.
But we still will have a good chance to try the merits of our
respective boats. We hurried and got ours fitted up almost as soon as
you did yours, and I think we have the better craft."

"I don't care to enter into any competition with you," said Mr. Swift
coldly.

"Ah, but I'm afraid you'll have to, whether you want to or not," was
the insolent reply.

"What's that?  Do you mean to force this matter upon me?"

"I'm afraid I'll have to--my employers and I, that is. You see, we
managed to pick up your trail after you left the Jersey coast, having
an idea where you were bound, and we don't intend to lose you now."

"Do you mean to follow us?" asked Captain Weston softly.

"Well, you can put it that way if you like," answered one of the two
men with Mr. Berg.

"I forbid it!" cried Mr. Swift hotly. "You have no right to sneak after
us."

"I guess the ocean is free," continued the rascally agent.

"Why do you persist in keeping after us?" inquired the aged inventor,
thinking it well to ascertain, if possible, just how much the men knew.

"Because we're after that treasure as well as you," was the bold reply.
"You have no exclusive right to it. The sunken ship is awaiting the
first comer, and whoever gets there first can take the gold from the
wreck. We intend to be there first, but we'll be fair with you."

"Fair? What do you mean?" demanded Tom.

"This: We'll race you for it. The first one to arrive will have the
right to search the wreck for the gold bullion. Is that fair? Do you
agree to it?"

"We agree to nothing with you," interrupted Captain Weston, his usual
diffident manner all gone. "I happen to be in partial command of this
craft, and I warn you that if I find you interfering with us it won't
be healthy for you.  I'm not fond of fighting, but when I begin I don't
like to stop," and he smiled grimly. "You'd better not follow us."

"We'll do as we please," shouted the third member of the trio on the
deck of the other boat, which, as Tom could see, was named the Wonder.
"We intend to get that gold if we can."

"All right. I've warned you," went on the sailor, and then, motioning
to Tom and his father to follow, he went below.

"Well, what's to be done?" asked Mr. Swift when they were seated in the
living-room, and had informed the others of the presence of the rival
submarine.

"The only thing I see to do is to sneak away unobserved, go as deep as
possible, and make all haste for the wreck," advised the captain. "They
will depend on us, for they have evidently no chart of the wreck,
though of course the general location of it may be known to them from
reading the papers. I hoped I had thrown them off the track by the
false chart I dropped, but it seems they were too smart for us."

"Have they a right to follow us?" asked Tom.

"Legally, but not morally. We can't prevent them, I'm afraid. The only
thing to do is to get there ahead of them.  It will be a race for the
sunken treasure, and we must get there first."

"What do you propose doing, captain?" asked Mr. Damon.  "Bless my
shirt-studs, but can't we pull their ship up on the island and leave it
there?"

"I'm afraid such high-handed proceedings would hardly answer," replied
Mr. Swift. "No, as Captain Weston says, we must get there ahead of
them. What do you think will be the best scheme, captain?"

"Well, there's no need for us to forego our plan to get fresh water.
Suppose we go to the island, that is, some of us, leaving a guard on
board here. We'll fill our tanks with fresh water, and at night we'll
quietly sink below the surface and speed away."

They all voted that an excellent idea, and little time was lost putting
it into operation.

All the remainder of that day not a sign of life was visible about the
Wonder. She lay inert on the surface of the lagoon, not far away from
the Advance; but, though no one showed himself on the deck, Tom and his
friends had no doubt but that their enemies were closely watching them.

As dusk settled down over the tropical sea, and as the shadows of the
trees on the little island lengthened, those on board the Advance
closed the Conning tower. No lights were turned on, as they did not
want their movements to be seen, but Tom, his father and Mr. Sharp took
their positions near the various machines and apparatus, ready to open
the tanks and let the submarine sink to the bottom, as soon as it was
possible to do this unobserved.

"Luckily there's no moon," remarked Captain Weston, as he took his
place beside Tom. "Once below the surface and we can defy them to find
us. It is odd how they traced us, but I suppose that steamer gave them
the clue."

It rapidly grew dark, as it always does in the tropics, and when a
cautious observation from the conning tower did not disclose the
outlines of the other boat, those aboard the Advance rightly concluded
that their rivals were unable to see them.

"Send her down, Tom," called his father, and with a hiss the water
entered the tanks. The submarine quickly sank below the surface, aided
by the deflecting rudder.

But alas for the hopes of the gold-seekers. No sooner was she
completely submerged, with the engine started so as to send her out of
the lagoon and to the open sea, than the waters all about were made
brilliant by the phosphorescent phenomenon. In southern waters this
frequently occurs.  Millions of tiny creatures, which, it is said,
swarm in the warm currents, give an appearance of fire to the ocean,
and any object moving through it can plainly be seen. It was so with
the Advance. The motion she made in shooting forward, and the
undulations caused by her submersion, seemed to start into activity the
dormant phosphorus, and the submarine was afloat in a sea of fire.

"Quick!" cried Tom. "Speed her up! Maybe we can get out of this patch
of water before they see us."

But it was too late. Above them they could hear the electric siren of
the Wonder as it was blown to let them know that their escape had been
noticed. A moment later the water, which acted as a sort of
sounding-board, or telephone, brought to the ears of Tom Swift and his
friends the noise of the engines of the other craft in operation.  She
was coming after them. The race for the possession of three hundred
thousand dollars in gold was already under way. Fate seemed against
those on board the Advance.




Chapter Seventeen

The Race


Directed by Captain Weston, who glanced at the compass and told him
which way to steer to clear the outer coral reef, Tom sent the
submarine ahead, signaling for full speed to the engine-room, where his
father and Mr. Sharp were. The big dynamos purred like great cats, as
they sent the electrical energy into the forward and aft plates,
pulling and pushing the Advance forward. On and on she rushed under
water, but ever as she shot ahead the disturbance in the phosphorescent
water showed her position plainly. She would be easy to follow.

"Can't you get any more speed out of her?" asked the captain of the lad.

"Yes," was the quick reply; "by using the auxiliary screws I think we
can. I'll try it."

He signaled for the propellers, forward and aft, to be put in
operation, and the motor moving the twin screws was turned on. At once
there was a perceptible increase to the speed of the Advance.

"Are we leaving them behind?" asked Tom anxiously, as he glanced at the
speed gage, and noted that the submarine was now about five hundred
feet below the surface.

"Hard to tell," replied the Captain. "You'd have to take an observation
to make sure."

"I'll do it," cried the youth. "You steer, please, and I'll go in the
conning tower. I can look forward and aft there, as well as straight
up. Maybe I can see the Wonder."

Springing up the circular ladder leading into the tower, Tom glanced
through the windows all about the small pilot house. He saw a curious
sight. It was as if the submarine was in a sea of yellowish liquid
fire. She was immersed in water which glowed with the flames that
contained no heat.  So light was it, in fact, that there was no need of
the incandescents in the tower. The young inventor could have seen to
read a paper by the illumination of the phosphorus.  But he had
something else to do than observe this phenomenon. He wanted to see if
he could catch sight of the rival submarine.

At first he could make out nothing save the swirl and boiling of the
sea, caused by the progress of the Advance through it. But suddenly, as
he looked up, he was aware of some great, black body a little to the
rear and about ten feet above his craft.

"A shark!" he exclaimed aloud. "An immense one, too."

But the closer he looked the less it seemed like a shark.  The position
of the black object changed. It appeared to settle down, to be
approaching the top of the conning tower.  Then, with a suddenness that
unnerved him for the time being, Tom recognized what it was; it was the
underside of a ship. He could see the plates riveted together, and
then, as he noted the rounded, cylindrical shape, he knew that it was a
submarine. It was the Wonder. She was close at hand and was creeping up
on the Advance. But, what was more dangerous, she seemed to be slowly
settling in the water.  Another moment and her great screws might crash
into the Conning tower of the Swifts' boat and shave it off. Then the
water would rush in, drowning the treasure-seekers like rats in a trap.

With a quick motion Tom yanked over the lever that allowed more water
to flow into the ballast tanks. The effect was at once apparent. The
Advance shot down toward the bottom of the sea. At the same time the
young inventor signaled to Captain Weston to notify those in the
engine-room to put on a little more speed. The Advance fairly leaped
ahead, and the lad, looking up through the bull's-eye in the roof of
the conning tower, had the satisfaction of seeing the rival submarine
left behind.

The youth hurried down into the interior of the ship to tell what he
had seen, and explain the reason for opening the ballast tanks. He
found his father and Mr. Sharp somewhat excited over the unexpected
maneuver of the craft.

"So they're still following us," murmured Mr. Swift. "I don't see why
we can't shake them off."

"It's on account of this luminous water," explained Captain Weston.
"Once we are clear of that it will be easy, I think, to give them the
slip. That is, if we can get out of their sight long enough. Of course,
if they keep close after us, they can pick us up with their
searchlight, for I suppose they carry one."

"Yes," admitted the aged inventor, "they have as strong a one as we
have. In fact, their ship is second only to this one in speed and
power. I know, for Bentley & Eagert showed me some of the plans before
they started it, and asked my opinion. This was before I had the notion
of building a submarine. Yes, I am afraid we'll have trouble getting
away from them."

"I can't understand this phosphorescent glow keeping up so long,"
remarked Captain Weston. "I've seen it in this locality several times,
but it never covered such an extent of the ocean in my time.  There
must be changed conditions here now."

For an hour or more the race was kept up, and the two submarines forged
ahead through the glowing sea. The Wonder remained slightly above and
to the rear of the other, the better to keep sight of her, and though
the Advance was run to her limit of speed, her rival could not be
shaken off.  Clearly the Wonder was a speedy craft.

"It's too bad that we've got to fight them, as well as run the risk of
lots of other troubles which are always present when sailing under
water," observed Mr Damon, who wandered about the submarine like the
nervous person he was. "Bless my shirt-studs! Can't we blow them up, or
cripple them in some way? They have no right to go after our treasure."

"Well, I guess they've got as much right as we have," declared Tom. "It
goes to whoever reaches the wreck first.  But what I don't like is
their mean, sneaking way of doing it. If they went off on their own
hook and looked for it I wouldn't say a word. But they expect us to
lead them to the wreck, and then they'll rob us if they can. That's not
fair."

"Indeed, it isn't," agreed Captain Weston, "if I may be allowed the
expression. We ought to find some way of stopping them. But, if I'm not
mistaken," he added quickly, looking from one of the port bull's-eyes,
"the phosphorescent glow is lessening. I believe we are running beyond
that part of the ocean."

There was no doubt of it, the glow was growing less and less, and ten
minutes later the Advance was speeding along through a sea as black as
night. Then, to avoid running into some wreck, it was necessary to turn
on the searchlight.

"Are they still after us?" asked Mr. Swift of his son, as he emerged
from the engine-room, where he had gone to make some adjustments to the
machinery, with the hope of increasing the speed.

"I'll go look," volunteered the lad. He climbed up into the conning
tower again, and for a moment, as he gazed back into the black waters
swirling all about, he hoped that they had lost the Wonder. But a
moment later his heart sank as he caught sight, through the liquid
element, of the flickering gleams of another searchlight, the rays
undulating through the sea.

"Still following," murmured the young inventor. "They're not going to
give up. But we must make 'em--that's all."

He went down to report what he had seen, and a consultation was held.
Captain Weston carefully studied the charts of that part of the ocean,
and finding that there was a great depth of water at hand, proposed a
series of evolutions.

"We can go up and down, shoot first to one side and then to the other,"
he explained. "We can even drop down to the bottom and rest there for a
while. Perhaps, in that way, we can shake them off."

They tried it. The Advance was sent up until her conning tower was out
of the water, and then she was suddenly forced down until she was but a
few feet from the bottom. She darted to the left, to the right, and
even doubled and went back over the course she had taken. But all to no
purpose.  The Wonder proved fully as speedy, and those in her seemed to
know just how to handle the submarine, so that every evolution of the
Advance was duplicated. Her rival could not be shaken off.

All night this was kept up, and when morning came, though only the
clocks told it, for eternal night was below the surface, the rival
gold-seekers were still on the trail.

"They won't give up," declared Mr. Swift hopelessly.

"No, we've got to race them for it, just as Berg proposed," admitted
Tom. "But if they want a straightaway race we'll give it to 'em. Let's
run her to the limit, dad."

"That's what we've been doing, Tom."

"No, not exactly, for we've been submerged a little too much to get the
best speed out of our craft. Let's go a little nearer the surface, and
give them the best race they'll ever have."

Then the race began; and such a contest of speed as it was! With her
propellers working to the limit, and every volt of electricity that was
available forced into the forward and aft plates, the Advance surged
through the water, about ten feet below the surface. But the Wonder
kept after her, giving her knot for knot. The course of the leading
submarine was easy to trace now, in the morning light which penetrated
ten feet down.

"No use," remarked Tom again, when, after two hours, the Wonder was
still close behind them. "Our only chance is that they may have a
breakdown."

"Or run out of air, or something like that," added Captain Weston.
"They are crowding us pretty close. I had no idea they could keep up
this speed. If they don't look out," he went on as he looked from one
of the aft observation windows, "they'll foul us, and--"

His remarks were interrupted by a jar to the Advance. She seemed to
shiver and careened to one side. Then came another bump.

"Slow down!" cried the captain, rushing toward the pilot house.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom, as he threw the engines and electrical
machines out of gear. "Have we hit anything?"

"No. Something has hit us," cried the captain. "Their submarine has
rammed us."

"Rammed us!" repeated Mr. Swift. "Tom, run out the electric cannon!
They're trying to sink us! We'll have to fight them. Run out the stern
electric gun and we'll make them wish they'd not followed us."




Chapter Eighteen

The Electric Gun


There was much  excitement aboard the Advance. The submarine came to a
stop in the water, while the treasure-seekers waited anxiously for what
was to follow. Would they be rammed again? This time, stationary as
they were, and with the other boat coming swiftly on, a hole might be
stove through the Advance, in spite of her powerful sides.

They had not long to wait. Again there came a jar, and once more the
Swifts' boat careened. But the blow was a glancing one and,
fortunately, did little damage.

"They certainly must be trying to sink us," agreed Captain Weston.
"Come, Tom, we'll take a look from the stern and see what they're up
to."

"And get the stern electric gun ready to fire," repeated Mr. Swift. "We
must protect ourselves. Mr. Sharp and I will go to the bow. There is no
telling what they may do. They're desperate, and may ram us from in
front."

Tom and the captain hurried aft. Through the thick plate-glass windows
they could see the blunt nose of the Wonder not far away, the rival
submarine having come to a halt.  There she lay, black and silent, like
some monster fish waiting to devour its victim.

"There doesn't appear to be much damage done back here," observed Tom.
"No leaks. Guess they didn't puncture us."

"Perhaps it was due to an accident that they rammed us," suggested the
captain.

"Well, they wouldn't have done it if they hadn't followed us so close,"
was the opinion of the young inventor.  "They're taking too many
chances. We've got to stop 'em."

"What is this electric gun your father speaks of?"

"Why, it's a regular electric cannon. It fires a solid ball, weighing
about twenty-five pounds, but instead of powder, which would hardly do
under water, and instead of compressed air, which is used in the
torpedo tubes of the Government submarines, we use a current of
electricity. It forces the cannon ball out with great energy."

"I wonder what they will do next?" observed the captain, peering
through a bull's eye.

"We can soon tell," replied the youth. "We'll go ahead, and if they try
to follow I'm going to fire on them."

"Suppose you sink them?"

"I won't fire to do that; only to disable them. They brought it on
themselves. We can't risk having them damage us. Help me with the
cannon, will you please, captain?"

The electric cannon was a long, steel tube in the after part of the
submarine. It projected a slight distance from the sides of the ship,
and by an ingenious arrangement could be swung around in a ball and
socket joint, thus enabling it to shoot in almost any direction.

It was the work of but a few minutes to get it ready and, with the
muzzle pointing toward the Wonder, Tom adjusted the electric wires and
inserted the solid shot.

"Now we're prepared for them!" he cried. "I think a good plan will be
to start ahead, and if they try to follow to fire on them. They've
brought it on themselves."

"Correct," spoke Captain Weston.

Tom hurried forward to tell his father of this plan.

"We'll do it!" cried Mr. Swift. "Go ahead, Mr. Sharp, and we'll see if
those scoundrels will follow."

The young inventor returned on the run to the electric cannon. There
was a whir of machinery, and the Advance moved forward. She increased
her speed, and the two watchers in the stern looked anxiously out of
the windows to see what their rivals would do.

For a moment no movement was noticeable on the part of the Wonder.
Then, as those aboard her appeared to realize that the craft on which
they depended to pilot them to the sunken treasure was slipping away,
word was given to follow. The ship of Berg and his employers shot after
the Advance.

"Here they come!" cried Captain Weston. "They're going to ram us again!"

"Then I'm going to fire on them!" declared Tom savagely.

On came the Wonder, nearer and nearer. Her speed was rapidly
increasing. Suddenly she bumped the Advance, and then, as if it was an
unavoidable accident, the rear submarine sheered off to one side.

"They're certainly at it again!" cried Tom, and peering from the
bull's-eye he saw the Wonder shoot past the mouth of the electric
cannon. "Here it goes!" he added.

He shoved over the lever, making the proper connection.  There was no
corresponding report, for the cannon was noiseless, but there was a
slight jar as the projectile left the muzzle. The Wonder could be seen
to heel over.

"You hit her! You hit her!" cried Captain Weston. "A good shot!"

"I was afraid she was past me when I pulled the lever," explained Tom.
"She went like a flash."

"No, you caught her on the rudder," declared the captain.  "I think
you've put her out of business. Yes, they're rising to the surface."

The lad rapidly inserted another ball, and recharged the cannon. Then
he peered out into the water, illuminated by the light of day overhead,
as they were not far down. He could see the Wonder rising to the
surface. Clearly something had happened.

"Maybe they're going to drop down on us from above, and try to sink
us," suggested the youth, while he stood ready to fire again. "If they
do--"

His words were interrupted by a slight jar throughout the submarine.

"What was that?" cried the captain.

"Dad fired the bow gun at them, but I don't believe he hit them,"
answered the young inventor.

"I wonder what damage I did? Guess we'll go to the surface to find out."

Clearly the Wonder had given up the fight for the time being. In fact,
she had no weapon with which to respond to a fusillade from her rival.
Tom hastened forward and informed his father of what had happened.

"If her steering gear is out of order, we may have a chance to slip
away," said Mr. Swift "We'll go up and see what we can learn."

A few minutes later Tom, his father and Captain Weston stepped from the
conning tower, which was out of water, on to the little flat deck a
short distance away lay the Wonder, and on her deck was Berg and a
number of men, evidently members of the crew.

"Why did you fire on us?" shouted the agent angrily.

"Why did you follow us?" retorted Tom.

"Well, you've broken our rudder and disabled us," went on Berg, not
answering the question. "You'll suffer for this!  I'll have you
arrested."

"You only got what you deserved," added Mr. Swift. "You were acting
illegally, following us, and you tried to sink us by ramming my craft
before we retaliated by firing on you."

"It was an accident, ramming you," said Berg. "We couldn't help it. I
now demand that you help us make repairs."

"Well, you've got nerve!" cried Captain Weston, his eyes flashing. "I'd
like to have a personal interview with you for about ten minutes. Maybe
something besides your ship would need repairs then."

Berg turned away, scowling, but did not reply. He began directing the
crew what to do about the broken rudder.

"Come on," proposed Tom in a low voice, for sounds carry very easily
over water. "Let's go below and skip out while we have a chance. They
can't follow now, and we can get to the sunken treasure ahead of them."

"Good advice," commented his father. "Come, Captain Weston, we'll go
below and close the conning tower."

Five minutes later the Advance sank from sight, the last glimpse Tom
had of Berg and his men being a sight of them standing on the deck of
their floating boat, gazing in the direction of their successful rival.
The Wonder was left behind, while Tom and his friends were soon once
more speeding toward the treasure wreck.




Chapter Nineteen

Captured


"Down deep," advised Captain Weston, as he stood beside Tom and Mr.
Swift in the pilot house. "As far as you can manage her, and then
forward. We'll take no more chances with these fellows."

"The only trouble is," replied the young inventor, "that the deeper we
go the slower we have to travel. The water is so dense that it holds us
back."

"Well, there is no special need of hurrying now," went on the sailor.
"No one is following you, and two or three days difference in reaching
the wreck will not amount to anything."

"Unless they repair their rudder, and take after us again," suggested
Mr. Swift.

"They're not very likely to do that," was the captain's opinion. "It
was more by luck than good management that they picked us up before.
Now, having to delay, as they will, to repair their steering gear,
while we can go as deep as we please and speed ahead, it is practically
impossible for them to catch up to us. No, I think we have nothing to
fear from them."

But though danger from Berg and his crowd was somewhat remote, perils
of another sort were hovering around the treasure-seekers, and they
were soon to experience them.

It was much different from sailing along in the airship, Tom thought,
for there was no blue sky and fleecy clouds to see, and they could not
look down and observe, far below them, cities and villages. Nor could
they breathe the bracing atmosphere of the upper regions.

But if there was lack of the rarefied air of the clouds, there was no
lack of fresh atmosphere. The big tanks carried a large supply, and
whenever more was needed the oxygen machine would supply it.

As there was no need, however, of remaining under water for any great
stretch of time, it was their practice to rise every day and renew the
air supply, also to float along on the surface for a while, or speed
along, with only the conning tower out, in order to afford a view, and
to enable Captain Weston to take observations. But care was always
exercised to make sure no ships were in sight when emerging on the
surface, for the gold-seekers did not want to be hailed and questioned
by inquisitive persons.

It was about four days after the disabling of the rival submarine, and
the Advance was speeding along about a mile and a half under water. Tom
was in the pilot house with Captain Weston, Mr. Damon was at his
favorite pastime of looking out of the glass side windows into the
ocean and its wonders, and Mr. Swift and the balloonist were, as
usual, in the engine-room.

"How near do you calculate we are to the sunken wreck?" asked Tom of
his companion.

"Well, at the calculation we made yesterday, we are within about a
thousand miles of it now. We ought to reach it in about four more days,
if we don't have any accidents."

"And how deep do you think it is?" went on the lad.

"Well, I'm afraid it's pretty close to two miles, if not more. It's
quite a depth, and of course impossible for ordinary divers to reach.
But it will be possible in this submarine and in the strong diving
suits your father has invented for us to get to it. Yes, I don't
anticipate much trouble in getting out the gold, once we reach the
wreck of course--"

The captain's remark was not finished. From the engine-room there came
a startled shout:

"Tom! Tom! Your father is hurt! Come here, quick!"

"Take the wheel!" cried the lad to the captain. "I must go to my
father." It was Mr. Sharp's voice he had heard.

Racing to the engine-room, Tom saw his parent doubled up over a dynamo,
while to one side, his hand on a copper switch, stood Mr. Sharp.

"What's the matter?" shouted the lad.

"He's held there by a current of electricity," replied the balloonist.
"The wires are crossed."

"Why don't you shut off the current?" demanded the youth, as he
prepared to pull his parent from the whirring machine.  Then he
hesitated, for he feared he, too, would be glued fast by the terrible
current, and so be unable to help Mr. Swift.

"I'm held fast here, too," replied the balloonist. "I started to cut
out the current at this switch, but there's a short circuit somewhere,
and I can't let go, either. Quick, shut off all power at the main
switchboard forward."

Tom realized that this was the only thing to do. He ran forward and
with a yank cut out all the electric wires. With a sigh of relief Mr.
Sharp pulled his hands from the copper where he had been held fast as
if by some powerful magnet, his muscles cramped by the current.
Fortunately the electricity was of low voltage, and he was not burned.
The body of Mr. Swift toppled backward from the dynamo, as Tom sprang
to reach his father.

"He's dead!" he cried, as he saw the pale face and the closed eyes.

"No, only badly shocked, I hope," spoke Mr. Sharp. "But we must get him
to the fresh air at once. Start the tank pumps.  We'll rise to the
surface."

The youth needed no second bidding. Once more turning on the electric
current, he set the powerful pumps in motion and the submarine began to
rise. Then, aided by Captain Weston and Mr. Damon, the young inventor
carried his father to a couch in the main cabin. Mr. Sharp took charge
of the machinery.

Restoratives were applied, and there was a flutter of the eyelids of
the aged inventor.

"I think he'll come around all right," said the sailor kindly, as he
saw Tom's grief. "Fresh air will be the thing for him. We'll be on the
surface in a minute."

Up shot the Advance, while Mr. Sharp stood ready to open the conning
tower as soon as it should be out of water. Mr. Swift seemed to be
rapidly reviving. With a bound the submarine, forced upward from the
great depth, fairly shot out of the water. There was a clanking sound
as the aeronaut opened the airtight door of the tower, and a breath of
fresh air came in.

"Can you walk, dad, or shall we carry you?" asked Tom solicitously.

"Oh, I--I'm feeling better now," was the inventor's reply.  "I'll soon
be all right when I get out on deck. My foot slipped as I was adjusting
a wire that had gotten out of order, and I fell so that I received a
large part of the current. I'm glad I was not burned. Was Mr. Sharp
hurt? I saw him run to the switch, just before I lost consciousness."

"No, I'm all right," answered the balloonist. "But allow us to get you
out to the fresh air. You'll feel much better then."

Mr. Swift managed to walk slowly to the ladder leading to the conning
tower, and thence to the deck. The others followed him. As all emerged
from the submarine they uttered a cry of astonishment.

There, not one hundred yards away, was a great warship, flying a flag
which, in a moment, Tom recognized as that of Brazil. The cruiser was
lying off a small island, and all about were small boats, filled with
natives, who seemed to be bringing supplies from land to the ship. At
the unexpected sight of the submarine, bobbing up from the bottom of
the ocean, the natives uttered cries of fright.  The attention of those
on the warship was attracted, and the bridge and rails were lined with
curious officers and men.

"It's a good thing we didn't come up under that ship," observed Tom.
"They would have thought we were trying to torpedo her. Do you feel
better, dad?" he asked, his wonder over the sight of the big vessel
temporarily eclipsed in his anxiety for his parent.

"Oh, yes, much better. I'm all right now. But I wish we hadn't
disclosed ourselves to these people. They may demand to know where we
are going, and Brazil is too near Uruguay to make it safe to tell our
errand. They may guess it, however, from having read of the wreck, and
our departure."

"Oh, I guess it will be all right," replied Captain Weston. "We can
tell them we are on a pleasure trip. That's true enough. It would give
us great pleasure to find that gold."

"There's a boat, with some officers in it, to judge by the amount of
gold lace on them, putting off from the ship," remarked Mr. Sharp.

"Ha! Yes! Evidently they intend to pay us a formal visit," observed Mr.
Damon. "Bless my gaiters, though. I'm not dressed to receive company. I
think I'll put on my dress suit."

"It's too late," advised Tom. "They'll be here in a minute."

Urged on by the lusty arms of the Brazilian sailors, the boat,
containing several officers, neared the floating submarine rapidly.

"Ahoy there!" called an officer in the bow, his accent betraying his
unfamiliarity with the English language. "What craft are you?"

"Submarine, Advance, from New Jersey," replied Tom. "Who are you?"

"Brazilian cruiser San Paulo," was the reply. "Where are you bound?"
went on the officer.

"On pleasure," answered Captain Weston quickly. "But why do you ask? We
are an American ship, sailing under American colors. Is this Brazilian
territory?"

"This island is--yes," came back the answer, and by this time the small
boat was at the side of the submarine. Before the adventurers could
have protested, had they a desire to do so, there were a number of
officers and the crew of the San Paulo on the small deck.

With a flourish, the officer who had done the questioning drew his
sword. Waving it in the air with a dramatic gesture, he exclaimed:

"You're our prisoners! Resist and my men shall cut you down like dogs!
Seize them, men!"

The sailors sprang forward, each one stationing himself at the side of
one of our friends, and grasping an arm.

"What does this mean?" cried Captain Weston indignantly.  "If this is a
joke, you're carrying it too far. If you're in earnest, let me warn you
against interfering with Americans!"

"We know what we are doing," was the answer from the officer.

The sailor who had hold of Captain Weston endeavored to secure a
tighter grip. The captain turned suddenly, and seizing the man about
the waist, with an exercise of tremendous strength hurled him over his
head and into the sea, the man making a great splash.

"That's the way I'll treat any one else who dares lay a hand on me!"
shouted the captain, who was transformed from a mild-mannered
individual into an angry, modern giant. There was a gasp of
astonishment at his feat, as the ducked sailor crawled back into the
small boat. And he did not again venture on the deck of the submarine.

"Seize them, men!" cried the gold-laced officer again, and this time he
and his fellows, including the crew, crowded so closely around Tom and
his friends that they could do nothing. Even Captain Weston found it
impossible to offer any resistance, for three men grabbed hold of him
but his spirit was still a fighting one, and he struggled desperately
but uselessly.

"How dare you do this?" he cried.

"Yes," added Tom, "what right have you to interfere with us?"

"Every right," declared the gold-laced officer.

"You are in Brazilian territory, and I arrest you."

"What for?" demanded Mr. Sharp.

"Because your ship is an American submarine, and we have received word
that you intend to damage our shipping, and may try to torpedo our
warships. I believe you tried to disable us a little while ago, but
failed. We consider that an act of war and you will be treated
accordingly. Take them on board the San Paulo," the officer went on,
turning to his aides. "We'll try them by court-marital here. Some of
you remain and guard this submarine. We will teach these filibustering
Americans a lesson."




Chapter Twenty

Doomed to Death


There was no room on the small deck of the submarine to make a stand
against the officers and crew of the Brazilian warship. In fact, the
capture of the gold-seekers had been effected so suddenly that their
astonishment almost deprived them of the power to think clearly.

At another command from the officer, who was addressed as Admiral
Fanchetti, several of the sailors began to lead Tom and his friends
toward the small boat.

"Do you feel all right, father?" inquired the lad anxiously, as he
looked at his parent. "These scoundrels have no right to treat us so."

"Yes, Tom, I'm all right as far as the electric shock is concerned, but
I don't like to be handled in this fashion."

"We ought not to submit!" burst out Mr. Damon. "Bless the stars and
stripes! We ought to fight."

"There's no chance," said Mr. Sharp. "We are right under the guns of
the ship. They could sink us with one shot. I guess we'll have to give
in for the time being."

"It is most unpleasant, if I may be allowed the expression," commented
Captain Weston mildly. He seemed to have lost his sudden anger, but
there was a steely glint in his eyes, and a grim, set look around his
month that showed his temper was kept under control only by an effort.
It boded no good to the sailors who had hold of the doughty captain if
he should once get loose, and it was noticed that they were on their
guard.

As for Tom, he submitted quietly to the two Brazilians who had hold of
either arm, and Mr. Swift was held by only one, for it was seen that he
was feeble.

"Into the boat with them!" cried Admiral Fanchetti. "And guard them
well, Lieutenant Drascalo, for I heard them plotting to escape," and
the admiral signaled to a younger officer, who was in charge of the men
guarding the prisoners.

"Lieutenant Drascalo, eh?" murmured Mr. Damon. "I think they made a
mistake naming him. It ought to be Rascalo. He looks like a rascal."

"Silenceo!" exclaimed the lieutenant, scowling at the odd character.

"Bless my spark plug! He's a regular fire-eater!" went on Mr. Damon,
who appeared to have fully recovered his spirits.

"Silenceo!" cried the lieutenant, scowling again, but Mr. Damon did not
appear to mind.

Admiral Fanchetti and several others of the gold-laced officers
remained aboard the submarine, while Tom and his friends were hustled
into the small boat and rowed toward the warship.

"I hope they don't damage our craft," murmured the young inventor, as
he saw the admiral enter the conning tower.

"If they do, we'll complain to the United States consul and demand
damages," said Mr. Swift.

"I'm afraid we won't have a chance to communicate with the consul,"
remarked Captain Weston.

"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Damon. "Bless my shoelaces, but will
these scoundrels--"

"Silenceo!" cried Lieutenant Drascalo quickly. "Dogs of Americans, do
you wish to insult us?"

"Impossible; you wouldn't appreciate a good, genuine United States
insult," murmured Tom under his breath.

"What I mean," went on the captain, "is that these people may carry the
proceedings off with a high hand. You heard the admiral speak of a
court-martial."

"Would they dare do that?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"They would dare anything in this part of the world, I'm afraid,"
resumed Captain Weston. "I think I see their plan, though. This admiral
is newly in command; his uniform shows that. He wants to make a name for
himself, and he seizes on our submarine as an excuse. He can send word
to his government that he destroyed a torpedo craft that sought to
wreck his ship. Thus he will acquire a reputation."

"But would his government support him in such a hostile act against the
United States, a friendly nation?" asked Tom.

"Oh, he would not claim to have acted against the United States as a
power. He would say that it was a private submarine, and, as a matter
of fact, it is. While we are under the protection of the stars and
stripes, our vessel is not a Government one," and Captain Weston spoke
the last in a low voice, so the scowling lieutenant could not hear.

"What will they do with us?" inquired Mr. Swift.

"Have some sort of a court-martial, perhaps," went on the captain, "and
confiscate our craft. Then they will send us back home, I expect for
they would not dare harm us."

"But take our submarine!" cried Tom. "The villains--"

"Silenceo!" shouted Lieutenant Drascalo and he drew his sword.

By this time the small boat was under the big guns of the San Paulo,
and the prisoners were ordered, in broken English, to mount a companion
ladder that hung over the side. In a short time they were on deck, amid
a crowd of sailors, and they could see the boat going back to bring off
the admiral, who signaled from the submarine. Tom and his friends were
taken below to a room that looked like a prison, and there, a little
later, they were visited by Admiral Fanchetti and several officers.

"You will be tried at once," said the admiral. "I have examined your
submarine and I find she carries two torpedo tubes. It is a wonder you
did not sink me at once."

"Those are not torpedo tubes!" cried Tom, unable to keep silent, though
Captain Weston motioned him to do so.

"I know torpedo tubes when I see them," declared the admiral. "I
consider I had a very narrow escape. Your country is fortunate that
mine does not declare war against it for this act. But I take it you
are acting privately, for you fly no flag, though you claim to be from
the United States."

"There's no place for a flag on the submarine," went on Tom. "What good
would it be under water?"

"Silenceo!" cried Lieutenant Drascalo, the admonition to silence
seeming to be the only command of which he was capable.

"I shall confiscate your craft for my government," went on the admiral,
"and shall punish you as the court-martial may direct. You will be
tried at once."

It was in vain for the prisoners to protest. Matters were carried with
a high hand. They were allowed a spokesman, and Captain Weston, who
understood Spanish, was selected, that language being used. But the
defense was a farce, for he was scarcely listened to. Several officers
testified before the admiral, who was judge, that they had seen the
submarine rise out of the water, almost under the prow of the San
Paulo. It was assumed that the Advance had tried to wreck the warship,
but had failed. It was in vain that Captain Weston and the others told
of the reason for their rapid ascent from the ocean depths--that Mr.
Swift had been shocked, and needed fresh air. Their story was not
believed.

"We have heard enough!" suddenly exclaimed the admiral.  "The evidence
against you is over-whelming--er--what you Americans call conclusive,"
and he was speaking then in broken English. "I find you guilty, and the
sentence of this court-martial is that you be shot at sunrise, three
days hence!"

"Shot!" cried Captain Weston, staggering back at this unexpected
sentence. His companions turned white, and Mr. Swift leaned against his
son for support.

"Bless my stars! Of all the scoundrelly!" began Mr. Damon.

"Silenceo!" shouted the lieutenant, waving his sword.

"You will be shot," proceeded the admiral. "Is not that the verdict of
the honorable court?" he asked, looking at his fellow officers. They
all nodded gravely.

"But look here!" objected Captain Weston. "You don't dare do that! We
are citizens of the United States, and--"

"I consider you no better than pirates," interrupted the admiral. "You
have an armed submarine--a submarine with torpedo tubes. You invade our
harbor with it, and come up almost under my ship. You have forfeited
your right to the protection of your country, and I have no fear on
that score. You will be shot within three days. That is all.  Remove
the prisoners."

Protests were in vain, and it was equally useless to struggle. The
prisoners were taken out on deck, for which they were thankful, for the
interior of the ship was close and hot, the weather being intensely
disagreeable. They were told to keep within a certain space on deck,
and a guard of sailors, all armed, was placed near them. From where
they were they could see their submarine floating on the surface of the
little bay, with several Brazilians on the small deck. The Advance had
been anchored, and was surrounded by a flotilla of the native boats,
the brown-skinned paddlers gazing curiously at the odd craft.

"Well, this is tough luck!" murmured Tom. "How do you feel, dad?"

"As well as can be expected under the circumstances," was the reply.
"What do you think about this, Captain Weston?"

"Not very much, if I may be allowed the expression," was the answer.

"Do you think they will dare carry out that threat?" asked Mr. Sharp.

The captain shrugged his shoulders. "I hope it is only a bluff," he
replied, "made to scare us so we will consent to giving up the
submarine, which they have no right to confiscate. But these fellows
look ugly enough for anything," he went on.

"Then if there's any chance of them attempting to carry it out," spoke
Tom, "we've got to do something."

"Bless my gizzard, of course!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "But what? That's
the question. To be shot! Why, that's a terrible threat! The villains--"

"Silenceo!" shouted Lieutenant Drascalo, coming up at that moment.




Chapter Twenty-One

The Escape


Events had happened so quickly that day that the gold-hunters could
scarcely comprehend them. It seemed only a short time since Mr. Swift
had been discovered lying disabled on the dynamo, and what had
transpired since seemed to have taken place in a few minutes, though it
was, in reality, several hours. This was made manifest by the feeling
of hunger on the part of Tom and his friends.

"I wonder if they're going to starve us, the scoundrels?" asked Mr.
Sharp, when the irate lieutenant was beyond hearing. "It's not fair to
make us go hungry and shoot us in the bargain."

"That's so, they ought to feed us," put in Tom. As yet neither he nor
the others fully realized the meaning of the sentence passed on them.

From where they were on deck they could look off to the little island.
From it boats manned by natives were constantly putting off, bringing
supplies to the ship. The place appeared to be a sort of calling
station for Brazilian warships, where they could get fresh water and
fruit and other food.

From the island the gaze of the adventurers wandered to the submarine,
which lay not far away. They were chagrined to see several of the
bolder natives clambering over the deck.

"I hope they keep out of the interior," commented Tom. "If they get to
pulling or hauling on the levers and wheels they may open the tanks and
sink her, with the Conning tower open."

"Better that, perhaps, than to have her fall into the hands of a
foreign power," commented Captain Weston.  "Besides, I don't see that
it's going to matter much to us what becomes of her after we're--"

He did not finish, but every one knew what he meant, and a grim silence
fell upon the little group.

There came a welcome diversion, however, in the shape of three sailors,
bearing trays of food, which were placed on the deck in front of the
prisoners, who were sitting or lying in the shade of an awning, for the
sun was very hot.

"Ha! Bless my napkin-ring!" cried Mr. Damon with something of his
former gaiety. "Here's a meal, at all events. They don't intend to
starve us. Eat hearty, every one."

"Yes, we need to keep up our strength," observed Captain Weston.

"Why?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"Because we're going to try to escape!" exclaimed Tom in a low voice,
when the sailors who had brought the food had gone. "Isn't that what
you mean, captain?"

"Exactly. We'll try to give these villains the slip, and we'll need all
our strength and wits to do it. We'll wait until night, and see what we
can do."

"But where will we escape to?" asked Mr. Swift. "The island will afford
no shelter, and--"

"No, but our submarine will," went on the sailor.

"It's in the possession of the Brazilians," objected Tom.

"Once I get aboard the Advance twenty of those brown-skinned villains
won't keep me prisoner," declared Captain Weston fiercely. "If we can
only slip away from here, get into the small boat, or even swim to the
submarine, I'll make those chaps on board her think a hurricane has
broken loose."

"Yes, and I'll help," said Mr. Damon.

"And I," added Tom and the balloonist.

"That's the way to talk," commented the captain. "Now let's eat, for I
see that rascally lieutenant coming this way, and we mustn't appear to
be plotting, or he'll be suspicious."

The day passed slowly, and though the prisoners seemed to be allowed
considerable liberty, they soon found that it was only apparent. Once
Tom walked some distance from that portion of the deck where he and the
others had been told to remain. A sailor with a gun at once ordered him
back. Nor could they approach the rails without being directed, harshly
enough at times, to move back amidships.

As night approached the gold-seekers were on the alert for any chance
that might offer to slip away, or even attack their guard, but the
number of Brazilians around them was doubled in the evening, and after
supper, which was served to them on deck by the light of swinging
lanterns, they were taken below and locked in a stuffy cabin. They
looked helplessly at each other.

"Don't give up," advised Captain Weston. "It's a long night. We may be
able to get out of here."

But this hope was in vain. Several times he and Tom, thinking the
guards outside the cabin were asleep, tried to force the lock of the
door with their pocket-knives, which had not been taken from them. But
one of the sailors was aroused each time by the noise, and looked in
through a barred window, so they had to give it up. Slowly the night
passed, and morning found the prisoners pale, tired and discouraged.
They were brought up on deck again, for which they were thankful, as in
that tropical climate it was stifling below.

During the day they saw Admiral Fanchetti and several of his officers
pay a visit to the submarine. They went below through the opened
conning tower, and were gone some time.

"I hope they don't disturb any of the machinery," remarked Mr. Swift.
"That could easily do great damage."

Admiral Fanchetti seemed much pleased with himself when he returned
from his visit to the submarine.

"You have a fine craft," he said to the prisoners. "Or, rather, you had
one. My government now owns it. It seems a pity to shoot such good boat
builders, but you are too dangerous to be allowed to go."

If there had been any doubt in the minds of Tom and his friends that
the sentence of the court-martial was only for effect, it was dispelled
that day. A firing squad was told off in plain view of them, and the
men were put through their evolutions by Lieutenant Drascalo, who had
them load, aim and fire blank cartridges at an imaginary line of
prisoners. Tom could not repress a shudder as he noted the leveled
rifles, and saw the fire and smoke spurt from the muzzles.

"Thus we shall do to you at sunrise to-morrow," said the lieutenant,
grinning, as he once more had his men practice their grim work.

It seemed hotter than ever that day. The sun was fairly broiling, and
there was a curious haziness and stillness to the air. It was noticed
that the sailors on the San Paulo were busy making fast all loose
articles on deck with extra lashings, and hatch coverings were doubly
secured.

"What do you suppose they are up to?" asked Tom of Captain Weston.

"I think it is coming on to blow," he replied, "and they don't want to
be caught napping. They have fearful storms down in this region at this
season of the year, and I think one is about due."

"I hope it doesn't wreck the submarine," spoke Mr. Swift.  "They ought
to close the hatch of the conning tower, for it won't take much of a
sea to make her ship considerable water."

Admiral Fanchetti had thought of this, however, and as the afternoon
wore away and the storm signs multiplied, he sent word to close the
submarine. He left a few sailors aboard inside on guard.

"It's too hot to eat," observed Tom, when their supper had been brought
to them, and the others felt the same way about it. They managed to
drink some cocoanut milk, prepared in a palatable fashion by the
natives of the island, and then, much to their disgust, they were taken
below again and locked in the cabin.

"Whew! But it certainly is hot!" exclaimed Mr. Damon as he sat down on
a couch and fanned himself. "This is awful!"

"Yes, something is going to happen pretty soon," observed Captain
Weston. "The storm will break shortly, I think."

They sat languidly about the cabin. It was so oppressive that even the
thought of the doom that awaited them in the morning could hardly seem
worse than the terrible heat. They could hear movements going on about
the ship, movements which indicated that preparations were being made
for something unusual. There was a rattling of a chain through a hawse
hole, and Captain Weston remarked:

"They're putting down another anchor. Admiral Fanchetti had better get
away from the island, though, unless he wants to be wrecked. He'll be
blown ashore in less than no time. No cable or chain will hold in such
storms as they have here."

There came a period of silence, which was suddenly broken by a howl as
of some wild beast.

"What's that?" cried Tom, springing up from where he was stretched out
on the cabin floor.

"Only the wind," replied the captain. "The storm has arrived."

The howling kept up, and soon the ship began to rock. The wind
increased, and a little later there could be heard, through an opened
port in the prisoners' cabin, the dash of rain.

"It's a regular hurricane!" exclaimed the captain. "I wonder if the
cables will hold?"

"What about the submarine?" asked Mr. Swift anxiously.

"I haven't much fear for her. She lies so low in the water that the
wind can't get much hold on her. I don't believe she'll drag her
anchor."

Once more came a fierce burst of wind, and a dash of rain, and then,
suddenly above the outburst of the elements, there sounded a crash on
deck. It was followed by excited cries.

"Something's happened!" yelled Tom. The prisoners gathered in a
frightened group in the middle of the cabin. The cries were repeated,
and then came a rush of feet just outside the cabin door.

"Our guards! They're leaving!" shouted Tom.

"Right!" exclaimed Captain Weston. "Now's our chance! Come on! If we're
going to escape we must do it while the storm is at its height, and all
is in confusion. Come on!"

Tom tried the door. It was locked.

"One side!" shouted the captain, and this time he did not pause to say
"by your leave." He came at the portal on the run, and his shoulder
struck it squarely. There was a splintering and crashing of wood, and
the door was burst open.

"Follow me!" cried the valiant sailor, and Tom and the others rushed
after him. They could hear the wind howling more loudly than ever, and
as they reached the deck the rain dashed into their faces with such
violence that they could hardly see. But they were aware that something
had occurred.  By the light of several lanterns swaying in the terrific
blast they saw that one of the auxiliary masts had broken off near the
deck.

It had fallen against the chart house, smashing it, and a number of
sailors were laboring to clear away the wreckage.

"Fortune favors us!" cried Captain Weston. "Come on! Make for the small
boat. It's near the side ladder. We'll lower the boat and pull to the
submarine."

There came a flash of lightning, and in its glare Tom saw something
that caused him to cry out.

"Look!" he shouted. "The submarine. She's dragged her anchors!"

The Advance was much closer to the warship than she had been that
afternoon. Captain Weston looked over the side.

"It's the San Paulo that's dragging her anchors, not the submarine!" he
shouted. "We're bearing down on her! We must act quickly. Come on,
we'll lower the boat!"

In the rush of wind and the dash of rain the prisoners crowded to the
accommodation companion ladder, which was still over the side of the
big ship. No one seemed to be noticing them, for Admiral Fanchetti was
on the bridge, yelling orders for the clearing away of the wreckage.
But Lieutenant Drascalo, coming up from below at that moment, caught
sight of the fleeing ones. Drawing his sword, he rushed at them,
shouting:

"The prisoners! The prisoners! They are escaping!"

Captain Weston leaped toward the lieutenant.

"Look out for his sword!" cried Tom. But the doughty sailor did not
fear the weapon. Catching up a coil of rope, he cast it at the
lieutenant. It struck him in the chest, and he staggered back, lowering
his sword.

Captain Weston leaped forward, and with a terrific blow sent Lieutenant
Drascalo to the deck.

"There!" cried the sailor. "I guess you won't yell 'Silenceo!' for a
while now."

There was a rush of Brazilians toward the group of prisoners. Tom
caught one with a blow on the chin, and felled him, while Captain
Weston disposed of two more, and Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon one each. The
savage fighting of the Americans was too much for the foreigners, and
they drew back.

"Come on!" cried Captain Weston again. "The storm is getting worse. The
warship will crash into the submarine in a few minutes. Her anchors
aren't holding. I didn't think they would."

He made a dash for the ladder, and a glance showed him that the small
boat was in the water at the foot of it. The craft had not been hoisted
on the davits.

"Luck's with us at last!" cried Tom, seeing it also.  "Shall I help
you, dad?"

"No; I think I'm all right. Go ahead."

There came such a gust of wind that the San Paulo was heeled over, and
the wreck of the mast, rolling about, crashed into the side of a deck
house, splintering it. A crowd of sailors, led by Admiral Fanchetti,
who were again rushing on the escaping prisoners, had to leap back out
of the way of the rolling mast.

"Catch them! Don't let them get away!" begged the commander, but the
sailors evidently had no desire to close in with the Americans.

Through the rush of wind and rain Tom and his friends staggered down
the ladder. It was hard work to maintain one's footing, but they
managed it. On account of the high side of the ship the water was
comparatively calm under her lee, and, though the small boat was
bobbing about, they got aboard. The oars were in place, and in another
moment they had shoved off from the landing stage which formed the foot
of the accommodation ladder.

"Now for the Advance!" murmured Captain Weston.

"Come back! Come back, dogs of Americans!" cried a voice at the rail
over their heads, and looking up, Tom saw Lieutenant Drascalo. He had
snatched a carbine from a marine, and was pointing it at the recent
prisoners. He fired, the flash of the gun and a dazzling chain of
lightning coming together. The thunder swallowed up the report of the
carbine, but the bullet whistled uncomfortable close to Tom's head. The
blackness that followed the lightning shut out the view of everything
for a few seconds, and when the next flash came the adventurers saw
that they were close to their submarine.

A fusillade of shots sounded from the deck of the warship, but as the
marines were poor marksmen at best, and as the swaying of the ship
disconcerted them, our friends were in little danger.

There was quite a sea once they were beyond the protection of the side
of the warship, but Captain Weston, who was rowing, knew how to manage
a boat skillfully, and he soon had the craft alongside the bobbing
submarine.

"Get aboard, now, quick!" he cried.

They leaped to the small deck, casting the rowboat adrift.  It was the
work of but a moment to open the conning tower.  As they started to
descend they were met by several Brazilians coming up.

"Overboard with 'em!" yelled the captain. "Let them swim ashore or to
their ship!"

With almost superhuman strength he tossed one big sailor from the small
deck. Another showed fight, but he went to join his companion in the
swirling water. A man rushed at Tom, seeking the while to draw his
sword, but the young inventor, with a neat left-hander, sent him to
join the other two, and the remainder did not wait to try conclusions.
They leaped for their lives, and soon all could be seen, in the
frequent lightning flashes, swimming toward the warship which was now
closer than ever to the submarine.

"Get inside and we'll sink below the surface!" called Tom.  "Then we
don't care what happens."

They closed the steel door of the conning tower. As they did so they
heard the patter of bullets from carbines fired from the San Paulo.
Then came a violent tossing of the Advance; the waves were becoming
higher as they caught the full force of the hurricane. It took but an
instant to sever, from within, the cable attached to the anchor, which
was one belonging to the warship. The Advance began drifting.

"Open the tanks, Mr. Sharp!" cried Tom. "Captain Weston and I will
steer. Once below we'll start the engines."

Amid a crash of thunder and dazzling flashes of lightning, the
submarine began to sink. Tom, in the conning tower had a sight of the
San Paulo as it drifted nearer and nearer under the influence of the
mighty wind. As one bright flash came he saw Admiral Fanchetti and
Lieutenant Drascalo leaning over the rail and gazing at the Advance.

A moment later the view faded from sight as the submarine sank below
the surface of the troubled sea. She was tossed about for some time
until deep enough to escape the surface motion. Waiting until she was
far enough down so that her lights would not offer a mark for the guns
of the warship, the electrics were switched on.

"We're safe now!" cried Tom, helping his father to his cabin. "They've
got too much to attend to themselves to follow us now, even if they
could. Shall we go ahead, Captain Weston?"

"I think so, yes, if I may be allowed to express my opinion," was the
mild reply, in strange contrast to the strenuous work in which the
captain had just been engaged.

Tom signaled to Mr. Sharp in the engine-room, and in a few seconds the
Advance was speeding away from the island and the hostile vessel. Nor,
deep as she was now, was there any sign of the hurricane. In the
peaceful depths she was once more speeding toward the sunken treasure.




Chapter Twenty-Two

At the Wreck


"Well," remarked Mr. Damon, as the submarine hurled herself forward
through the ocean, "I guess that firing party will have something else
to do to-morrow morning besides aiming those rifles at us."

"Yes, indeed," agreed Tom. "They'll be lucky if they save their ship.
My, how that wind did blow!"

"You're right," put in Captain Weston. "When they get a hurricane down
in this region it's no cat's paw. But they were a mighty careless lot
of sailors. The idea of leaving the ladder over the side, and the boat
in the water."

"It was a good thing for us, though," was Tom's opinion.

"Indeed it was," came from the captain. "But as long as we are safe now
I think we'd better take a look about the craft to see if those chaps
did any damage. They can't have done much, though, or she wouldn't be
running so smoothly.  Suppose you go take a look, Tom, and ask your
father and Mr. Sharp what they think. I'll steer for a while, until we
get well away from the island."

The young inventor found his father and the balloonist busy in the
engine-room. Mr. Swift had already begun an inspection of the
machinery, and so far found that it had not been injured. A further
inspection showed that no damage had been done by the foreign guard
that had been in temporary possession of the Advance, though the
sailors had made free in the cabins, and had broken into the food
lockers, helping themselves plentifully. But there was still enough for
the gold-seekers.

"You'd never know there was a storm raging up above," observed Tom as
he rejoined Captain Weston in the lower pilot house, where he was
managing the craft. "It's as still and peaceful here as one could wish."

"Yes, the extreme depths are seldom disturbed by a surface storm. But
we are over a mile deep now. I sent her down a little while you were
gone, as I think she rides a little more steadily."

All that night they speeded forward, and the next day, rising to the
surface to take an observation, they found no traces of the storm,
which had blown itself out. They were several hundred miles away from
the hostile warship, and there was not a vessel in sight on the broad
expanse of blue ocean.

The air tanks were refilled, and after sailing along on the surface for
an hour or two, the submarine was again sent below, as Captain Weston
sighted through his telescope the smoke of a distant steamer.

"As long as it isn't the Wonder, we're all right," said Tom. "Still, we
don't want to answer a lot of questions about ourselves and our object."

"No. I fancy the Wonder will give up the search," remarked the captain,
as the Advance was sinking to the depths.

"We must be getting pretty near to the end of our search ourselves,"
ventured the young inventor.

"We are within five hundred miles of the intersection of the
forty-fifth parallel and the twenty-seventh meridian, east from
Washington," said the captain. "That's as near as I could locate the
wreck. Once we reach that point we will have to search about under
water, for I don't fancy the other divers left any buoys to mark the
spot."

It was two days later, after uneventful sailing, partly on the surface,
and partly submerged, that Captain Weston, taking a noon observation,
announced:

"Well, we're here!"

"Do you mean at the wreck?" asked Mr. Swift eagerly.

"We're at the place where she is supposed to lie, in about two miles of
water," replied the captain. "We are quite a distance off the coast of
Uruguay, about opposite the harbor of Rio de La Plata. From now on we
shall have to nose about under water, and trust to luck."

With her air tanks filled to their capacity, and Tom having seen that
the oxygen machine and other apparatus was in perfect working order,
the submarine was sent below on her search. Though they were in the
neighborhood of the wreck, the adventurers might still have to do
considerable searching before locating it. Lower and lower they sank
into the depths of the sea, down and down, until they were deeper than
they had ever gone before. The pressure was tremendous, but the steel
sides of the Advance withstood it.

Then began a search that lasted nearly a week. Back and forth they
cruised, around in great circles, with the powerful searchlight focused
to disclose the sunken treasure ship. Once Tom, who was observing the
path of light in the depths from the conning tower, thought he had seen
the remains of the Boldero, for a misty shape loomed up in front of the
submarine, and he signaled for a quick stop. It was a wreck, but it had
been on the ocean bed for a score of years, and only a few timbers
remained of what had been a great ship. Much disappointed, Tom rang for
full speed ahead again, and the current was sent into the great
electric plates that pulled and pushed the submarine forward.

For two days more nothing happened. They searched around under the
green waters, on the alert for the first sign, but they saw nothing.
Great fish swam about them, sometimes racing with the Advance. The
adventurers beheld great ocean caverns, and skirted immense rocks,
where dwelt monsters of the deep. Once a great octopus tried to do
battle with the submarine and crush it in its snaky arms, but Tom saw
the great white body, with saucer-shaped eyes, in the path of light and
rammed him with the steel point. The creature died after a struggle.

They were beginning to despair when a full week had passed and they
were seemingly as far from the wreck as ever. They went to the surface
to enable Captain Weston to take another observation. It only confirmed
the other, and showed that they were in the right vicinity. But it was
like looking for a needle in a haystack, almost, to find the sunken ship
in that depth of water.

"Well, we'll try again," said Mr. Swift, as they sank once more beneath
the surface.

It was toward evening, on the second day after this, that Tom, who was
on duty in the conning tower, saw a black shape looming up in front of
the submarine, the searchlight revealing it to him far enough away so
that he could steer to avoid it. He thought at first that it was a
great rock, for they were moving along near the bottom, but the
peculiar shape of it soon convinced him that this could not be. It came
more plainly into view as the submarine approached it more slowly, then
suddenly, out of the depths in the illumination from the searchlight,
the young inventor saw the steel sides of a steamer. His heart gave a
great thump, but he would not call out yet, fearing that it might be
some other vessel than the one containing the treasure.

He steered the Advance so as to circle it. As he swept past the bows he
saw in big letters near the sharp prow the word, Boldero.

"The wreck! The wreck!" he cried, his voice ringing through the craft
from end to end. "We've found the wreck at last!"

"Are you sure?" cried his father, hurrying to his son, Captain Weston
following.

"Positive," answered the lad. The submarine was slowing up now, and Tom
sent her around on the other side. They had a good view of the sunken
ship. It seemed to be intact, no gaping holes in her sides, for only
her plates had started, allowing her to sink gradually.

"At last," murmured Mr. Swift. "Can it be possible we are about to get
the treasure?"

"That's the Boldero, all right," affirmed Captain Weston.  "I recognize
her, even if the name wasn't on her bow. Go right down on the bottom,
Tom, and we'll get out the diving suits and make an examination."

The submarine settled to the ocean bed. Tom glanced at the depth gage.
It showed over two miles and a half. Would they be able to venture out
into water of such enormous pressure in the comparatively frail diving
suits, and wrest the gold from the wreck? It was a serious question.

The Advance came to a stop. In front of her loomed the great bulk of
the Boldero, vague and shadowy in the flickering gleam of the
searchlight. As the gold-seekers looked at her through the bull's-eyes
of the conning tower, several great forms emerged from beneath the
wreck's bows.

"Deep-water sharks!" exclaimed  Captain Weston, "and monsters, too. But
they can't bother us. Now to get out the gold!"




Chapter Twenty-Three

Attacked by Sharks


For a few minutes after reaching the wreck, which had so occupied their
thoughts for the past weeks, the adventurers did nothing but gaze at it
from the ports of the submarine.  The appearance of the deep-water
sharks gave them no concern, for they did not imagine the ugly
creatures would attack them. The treasure-seekers were more engrossed
with the problem of getting out the gold.

"How are we going to get at it?" asked Tom, as he looked at the high
sides of the sunken ship, which towered well above the comparatively
small Advance.

"Why, just go in and get it," suggested Mr. Damon. "Where is gold in a
cargo usually kept, Captain Weston? You ought to know, I should think.
Bless my pocketbook!"

"Well, I should say that in this case the bullion would be kept in a
safe in the captain's cabin," replied the sailor.  "Or, if not there,
in some after part of the vessel, away from where the crew is
quartered. But it is going to be quite a problem to get at it. We can't
climb the sides of the wreck, and it will be impossible to lower her
ladder over the side. However, I think we had better get into the
diving suits and take a closer look. We can walk around her."

"That's my idea," put in Mr. Sharp. "But who will go, and who will stay
with the ship?"

"I think Tom and Captain Weston had better go," suggested Mr. Swift.
"Then, in case anything happens, Mr. Sharp, you and I will be on board
to manage matters."

"You don't think anything will happen, do you, dad?" asked his son with
a laugh, but it was not an easy one, for the lad was thinking of the
shadowy forms of the ugly sharks.

"Oh, no, but it's best to be prepared," answered his father.

The captain and the young inventor lost no time in donning the diving
suits. They each took a heavy metal bar, pointed at one end, to use in
assisting them to walk on the bed of the ocean, and as a protection in
case the sharks might attack them. Entering the diving chamber, they
were shut in, and then water was admitted until the pressure was seen,
by gauges, to be the same as that outside the submarine. Then the
sliding steel door was opened. At first Tom and the captain could
barely move, so great was the pressure of water on their bodies. They
would have been crushed but for the protection afforded by the strong
diving suits.

In a few minutes they became used to it, and stepped out on the floor
of the ocean. They could not, of course, speak to each other, but Tom
looked through the glass eyes of his helmet at the captain, and the
latter motioned for the lad to follow. The two divers could breathe
perfectly, and by means of small, but powerful lights on the helmets,
the way was lighted for them as they advanced.

Slowly they approached the wreck, and began a circuit of her. They
could see several places where the pressure of the water, and the
strain of the storm in which she had foundered, had opened the plates
of the ship, but in no case were the openings large enough to admit a
person.  Captain Weston put his steel bar in one crack, and tried to
pry it farther open, but his strength was not equal to the task. He
made some peculiar motions, but Tom could not understand them.

They looked for some means by which they could mount to the decks of
the Boldero, but none was visible. It was like trying to scale a
fifty-foot smooth steel wall. There was no place for a foothold. Again
the sailor made some peculiar motions, and the lad puzzled over them.
They had gone nearly around the wreck now, and as yet had seen no way
in which to get at the gold. As they passed around the bow, which was
in a deep shadow from a great rock, they caught sight of the submarine
lying a short distance away. Light streamed from many bull's-eyes, and
Tom felt a sense of security as he looked at her, for it was lonesome
enough in that great depth of water, unable to speak to his companion,
who was a few feet in advance.

Suddenly there was a swirling of the water, and Tom was nearly thrown
off his feet by the rush of some great body. A long, black shadow
passed over his head, and an instant later he saw the form of a great
shark launched at Captain Weston. The lad involuntarily cried in alarm,
but the result was surprising. He was nearly deafened by his own voice,
confined as the sound was in the helmet he wore. But the sailor, too,
had felt the movement of the water, and turned just in time. He thrust
upward with his pointed bar. But he missed the stroke, and Tom, a
moment later, saw the great fish turn over so that its mouth, which is
far underneath its snout, could take in the queer shape which the shark
evidently thought was a choice morsel. The big fish did actually get
the helmet of Captain Weston inside its jaws, but probably it would
have found it impossible to crush the strong steel. Still it might have
sprung the joints, and water would have entered, which would have been
as fatal as though the sailor had been swallowed by the shark. Tom
realized this and, moving as fast as he could through the water, he
came up behind the monster and drove his steel bar deep into it.

The sea was crimsoned with blood, and the savage creature, opening its
mouth, let go of the captain. It turned on Tom, who again harpooned it.
Then the fish darted off and began a wild flurry, for it was dying. The
rush of water nearly threw Tom off his feet, but he managed to make his
way over to his friend, and assist him to rise. A confident look from
the sailor showed the lad that Captain Weston was uninjured, though he
must have been frightened. As the two turned to make their way back to
the submarine, the waters about them seemed alive with the horrible
monsters.

It needed but a glance to show what they were, Sharks!  Scores of them,
long, black ones, with their ugly, undershot mouths. They had been
attracted by the blood of the one Tom had killed, but there was not a
meal for all of them off the dying creature, and the great fish might
turn on the young inventor and his companion.

The two shrank closer toward the wreck. They might get under the prow
of that and be safe. But even as they started to move, several of the
sea wolves darted quickly at them.  Tom glanced at the captain. What
could they do? Strong as were the diving suits, a combined attack by
the sharks, with their powerful jaws, would do untold damage.

At that moment there seemed some movement on board the submarine. Tom
could see his father looking from the conning tower, and the aged
inventor seemed to be making some motions. Then Tom understood. Mr.
Swift was directing his son and Captain Weston to crouch down. The lad
did so, pulling the sailor after him. Then Tom saw the bow electric gun
run out, and aimed at the mass of sharks, most of whom were congregated
about the dead one. Into the midst of the monsters was fired a number
of small projectiles, which could be used in the electric cannon in
place of the solid shot. Once more the waters were red with blood, and
those sharks which were not killed swirled off. Tom and Captain Weston
were saved. They were soon inside the submarine again, telling their
thrilling story.

"It's lucky you saw us, dad," remarked the lad, blushing at the praise
Mr. Damon bestowed on him for killing the monster which had attacked
the captain.

"Oh, I was on the lookout," said the inventor. "But what about getting
into the wreck?"

"I think the only way we can do it will be to ram a hole in her side,"
said Captain Weston. "That was what I tried to tell Tom by motions, but
he didn't seem to understand me."

"No," replied the lad, who was still a little nervous from his recent
experience. "I thought you meant for us to turn it over, bottom side
up," and he laughed.

"Bless my gizzard!  Just like a shark," commented Mr. Damon.

"Please don't mention them," begged Tom. "I hope we don't see any more
of them."

"Oh, I fancy they have been driven far enough away from this
neighborhood now," commented the captain. "But now about the wreck. We
may be able to approach it from above.  Suppose we try to lower the
submarine on it? That will save ripping it open."

This was tried a little later, but would not work. There were strong
currents sweeping over the top of the Boldero, caused by a submerged
reef near which she had settled. It was a delicate task to sink the
submarine on her decks, and with the deep waters swirling about was
found to be impossible, even with the use of the electric plates and
the auxiliary screws. Once more the Advance settled to the ocean bed,
near the wreck.

"Well, what's to be done?" asked Tom, as he looked at the high steel
sides.

"Ram her, tear a hole, and then use dynamite," decided Captain Weston
promptly. "You have some explosive, haven't you, Mr. Swift?"

"Oh, yes. I came prepared for emergencies."

"Then we'll blow up the wreck and get at the gold."




Chapter Twenty-Four

Ramming the Wreck


Fitted with a long, sharp steel ram in front, the Advance was
peculiarly adapted for this sort of work. In designing the ship this
ram was calculated to be used against hostile vessels in war time, for
the submarine was at first, as we know, destined for a Government boat.
Now the ram was to serve a good turn.

To make sure that the attempt would be a success, the machinery of the
craft was carefully gone over. It was found to be in perfect order,
save for a few adjustments which were needed. Then, as it was night,
though there was no difference in the appearance of things below the
surface, it was decided to turn in, and begin work in the morning. Nor
did the gold-seekers go to the surface, for they feared they might
encounter a storm.

"We had trouble enough locating the wreck," said Captain Weston, "and
if we go up we may be blown off our course. We have air enough to stay
below, haven't we, Tom?"

"Plenty," answered the lad, looking at the gages.

After a hearty breakfast the next morning, the submarine crew got ready
for their hard task. The craft was backed away as far as was practical,
and then, running at full speed, she rammed the wreck. The shock was
terrific, and at first it was feared some damage had been done to the
Advance, but she stood the strain.

"Did we open up much of a hole?" anxiously asked Mr. Swift.

"Pretty good," replied Tom, observing it through the conning tower
bull's-eyes, when the submarine had backed off again. "Let's give her
another."

Once more the great steel ram hit into the side of the Boldero, and
again the submarine shivered from the shock.  But there was a bigger
hole in the wreck now, and after Captain Weston had viewed it he
decided it was large enough to allow a person to enter and place a
charge of dynamite so that the treasure ship would be broken up.

Tom and the captain placed the explosive. Then the Advance was
withdrawn to a safe distance. There was a dull rumble, a great swirling
of the water, which was made murky; but when it cleared, and the
submarine went back, it was seen that the wreck was effectively broken
up. It was in two parts, each one easy of access.

"That's the stuff!" cried Tom. "Now to get at the gold!"

"Yes, get out the diving suits," added Mr. Damon. "Bless my
watch-charm, I think I'll chance it in one myself! Do you think the
sharks are all gone, Captain Weston?"

"I think so."

In a short time Tom, the captain, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon were attired
in the diving suits, Mr. Swift not caring to venture into such a great
depth of water. Besides, it was necessary for at least one person to
remain in the submarine to operate the diving chamber.

Walking slowly along the bottom of the sea the four gold-seekers
approached the wreck. They looked on all sides for a sight of the
sharks, but the monster fish seemed to have deserted that part of the
ocean. Tom was the first to reach the now disrupted steamer. He found
he could easily climb up, for boxes and barrels from the cargo holds
were scattered all about by the explosion. Captain Weston soon joined
the lad. The sailor motioned Tom to follow him, and being more familiar
with ocean craft the captain was permitted to take the lead. He headed
aft, seeking to locate the captain's cabin. Nor was he long in finding
it. He motioned for the others to enter, that the combined illumination
of the lamps in their helmets would make the place bright enough so a
search could be made for the gold.  Tom suddenly seized the arm of the
captain, and pointed to one corner of the cabin. There stood a small
safe, and at the sight of it Captain Weston moved toward it. The door
was not locked, probably having been left open when the ship was
deserted. Swinging it back the interior was revealed.

It was empty. There was no gold bullion in it.

There was no mistaking the dejected air of Captain Weston.  The others
shared his feelings, but though they all felt like voicing their
disappointment, not a word could be spoken. Mr. Sharp, by vigorous
motions, indicated to his companions to seek further.

They did so, spending all the rest of the day in the wreck, save for a
short interval for dinner. But no gold rewarded their search.

Tom, late that afternoon, wandered away from the others, and found
himself in the captain's cabin again, with the empty safe showing dimly
in the water that was all about.

"Hang it all!" thought the lad, "we've had all our trouble for nothing!
They must have taken the gold with them."

Idly he raised his steel bar, and struck it against the partition back
of the safe. To his astonishment the partition seemed to fall inward,
revealing a secret compartment. The lad leaned forward to bring the
light for his helmet to play on the recess. He saw a number of boxes,
piled one upon the other. He had accidentally touched a hidden spring
and opened a secret receptacle. But what did it contain?

Tom reached in and tried to lift one of the boxes. He found it beyond
his strength. Trembling from excitement, he went in search of the
others. He found them delving in the after part of the wreck, but by
motions our hero caused them to follow him. Captain Weston showed the
excitement he felt as soon as he caught sight of the boxes. He and Mr.
Sharp lifted one out, and placed it on the cabin floor. They pried off
the top with their bars.

There, packed in layers, were small yellow bars; dull, gleaming, yellow
bars! It needed but a glance to show that they were gold bullion. Tom
had found the treasure. The lad tried to dance around there in the
cabin of the wreck, nearly three miles below the surface of the ocean,
but the pressure of water was too much for him. Their trip had been
successful.




Chapter Twenty-Five

Home With the Gold


There was no time to be lost. They were in a treacherous part of the
ocean, and strong currents might at any time further break up the
wreck, so that they could not come at the gold. It was decided, by
means of motions, to at once transfer the treasure to the submarine. As
the boxes were too heavy to carry easily, especially as two men, who
were required to lift one, could not walk together in the uncertain
footing afforded by the wreck, another plan was adopted. The boxes were
opened and the bars, a few at a time, were dropped on a firm, sandy
place at the side of the wreck. Tom and Captain Weston did this work,
while Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon carried the bullion to the diving chamber
of the Advance. They put the yellow bars inside, and when quite a
number had been thus shifted, Mr. Swift, closing the chamber, pumped
the water out and removed the gold. Then he opened the chamber to the
divers again, and the process was repeated, until all the bullion had
been secured.

Tom would have been glad to make a further examination of the wreck,
for he thought he could get some of the rifles the ship carried, but
Captain Weston signed to him not to attempt this.

The lad went to the pilot house, while his father and Mr. Sharp took
their places in the engine-room. The gold had been safely stowed in Mr.
Swift's cabin.

Tom took a last look at the wreck before he gave the starting signal.
As he gazed at the bent and twisted mass of steel that had once been a
great ship, he saw something long, black and shadowy moving around from
the other side, coming across the bows.

"There's another big shark," he observed to Captain Weston. "They're
coming back after us."

The captain did not speak. He was staring at the dark form. Suddenly,
from what seemed the pointed nose of it, there gleamed a light, as from
some great eye.

"Look at that!" cried Tom. "That's no shark!"

"If you want my opinion," remarked the sailor, "I should say it was the
other submarine--that of Berg and his friends--the Wonder. They've
managed to fix up their craft and are after the gold."

"But they're too late!" cried Tom excitedly. "Let's tell them so."

"No," advised the captain. "We don't want any trouble with them."

Mr. Swift came forward to see why his son had not given the signal to
start. He was shown the other submarine, for now that the Wonder had
turned on several searchlights, there was no doubt as to the identity
of the craft.

"Let's get away unobserved if we can," he suggested. "We have had
trouble enough."

It was easy to do this, as the Advance was hidden behind the wreck, and
her lights were glowing but dimly. Then, too, those in the other
submarine were so excited over the finding of what they supposed was
the wreck containing the treasure, that they paid little attention to
anything else.

"I wonder how they'll feel when they find the gold gone?" asked Tom as
he pulled the lever starting the pumps.

"Well, we may have a chance to learn, when we get back to
civilization," remarked the captain.

The surface was soon reached, and then, under fair skies, and on a calm
sea, the voyage home was begun. Part of the time the Advance sailed on
the top, and part of the time submerged.

They met with but a single accident, and that was when the forward
electrical plate broke. But with the aft one still in commission, and
the auxiliary screws, they made good time. Just before reaching home
they settled down to the bottom and donned the diving suits again, even
Mr. Swift taking his turn. Mr. Damon caught some large lobsters, of
which he was very fond, or, rather, to be more correct, the lobsters
caught him. When he entered the diving chamber there were four fine
ones clinging to different parts of his diving suit. Some of them were
served for dinner.

The adventurers safely reached the New Jersey coast, and the submarine
was docked. Mr. Swift at once communicated with the proper authorities
concerning the recovery of the gold. He offered to divide with the
actual owners, after he and his friends had been paid for their
services, but as the revolutionary party to whom the bullion was
intended had gone out of existence, there was no one to officially
claim the treasure, so it all went to Tom and his friends, who made an
equitable distribution of it. The young inventor did not forget to buy
Mrs. Baggert a fine diamond ring, as he had promised.

As for Berg and his employers, they were, it was learned later, greatly
chagrined at finding the wreck valueless.  They tried to make trouble
for Tom and his father, but were not successful.

A few days after arriving at the seacoast cottage, Tom, his father and
Mr. Damon went to Shopton in the airship.  Captain Weston, Garret
Jackson and Mr Sharp remained behind in charge of the submarine. It was
decided that the Swifts would keep the craft and not sell it to the
Government, as Tom said they might want to go after more treasure some
day.

"I must first deposit this gold," said Mr. Swift as the airship landed
in front of the shed at his home. "It won't do to keep it in the house
over night, even if the Happy Harry gang is in jail."

Tom helped him take it to the bank. As they were making perhaps the
largest single deposit ever put in the institution, Ned Newton came out.

"Well, Tom," he cried to his chum, "it seems that you are never going
to stop doing things. You've conquered the air, the earth and the
water."

"What have you been doing while I've been under water, Ned?" asked the
young inventor.

"Oh, the same old thing. Running errands and doing all sorts of work in
the bank."

Tom had a sudden idea. He whispered to his father and Mr. Swift nodded.
A little later he was closeted with Mr. Prendergast, the bank
president. It was not long before Ned and Tom were called in.

"I have some good news for you, Ned," said Mr. Prendergast, while Tom
smiled. "Mr. Swift er--ahem--one of our largest depositors, has spoken
to me about you, Ned. I find that you have been very faithful. You are
hereby appointed assistant cashier, and of course you will get a much
larger salary."

Ned could hardly believe it, but he knew then what Tom had whispered to
Mr. Swift. The wishes of a depositor who brings much gold bullion to a
bank can hardly be ignored.

"Come on out and have some soda," invited Tom, and when Ned looked
inquiringly at the president, the latter nodded an assent.

As the two lads were crossing the street to a drug store, something
whizzed past them, nearly running them down.

"What sort of an auto was that?" cried Tom.

"That? Oh, that was Andy Foger's new car," answered Ned.  "He's been
breaking the speed laws every day lately, but no one seems to bother
him. It's because his father is rich, I suppose. Andy says he has the
fastest car ever built."

"He has, eh?" remarked Tom, while a curious look came into his eyes.
"Well, maybe I can build one that will beat his."

And whether the young inventor did or not you can learn by reading the
fifth volume of this series, to be called "Tom Swift and His Electric
Runabout; Or, The Speediest Car on the Road."

"Well, Tom, I certainly appreciate what you did for me in getting me a
better position," remarked Ned as they left the drug store. "I was
beginning to think I'd never get promoted. Say, have you anything to do
this evening? If you haven't, I wish you'd come over to my house. I've
got a lot of pictures I took while you were away."

"Sorry, but I can't," replied Tom.

"Why, are you going to build another airship or submarine?"

"No, but I'm going to see-- Oh, what do you want to know for, anyhow?"
demanded the young inventor with a blush.  "Can't a fellow go see a
girl without being cross-questioned?"

"Oh, of course," replied Ned with a laugh. "Give Miss Nestor my
regards," and at this Tom blushed still more. But, as he said, that was
his own affair.

End 


TOM SWIFT AND HIS ELECTRIC RUNABOUT

or

The Speediest Car on the Road


by

VICTOR APPLETON




Tom Swift and His Electric Runabout




CONTENTS


CHAPTER

     I  TOM HOPES FOR A PRIZE
    II  MR. DAMON'S STEERING
   III  THE MOTOR-CYCLE WINS
    IV  TALE OF A NEW BANK
     V  A MIDNIGHT ENCOUNTER
    VI  BUILDING THE CAR
   VII  TOM IS CAPTURED
  VIII  A BLINDING FLASH
    IX  TOM IS RESCUED
     X  TOM HAS A FALL
    XI  CROSSED WIRES
   XII  THE TRYOUT
  XIII  TOWED BY A MULE
   XIV  A GREAT RUN
    XV  ANDY FOGER'S BLACK EYE
   XVI  TROUBLE AT THE BANK
  XVII  A RUN ON THE BANK
 XVIII  AFTER THE CASH
   XIX  STOPPED ON THE ROAD
    XX  ON TIME
   XXI  OFF TO THE BIG RACE
  XXII  IN A DITCH
  XIII  THE POWER GONE
   XIV  ON THE TRACK
   XXV  WINNING THE PRIZE




TOM SWIFT AND HIS ELECTRIC RUNABOUT



CHAPTER I

TOM HOPES FOR A PRIZE


"Father," exclaimed Tom Swift, looking up from a paper he was reading,
"I think I can win that prize!"

"What prize is that?" inquired the aged inventor, gazing away from a
drawing of a complicated machine, and pausing in his task of making
some intricate calculations. "You don't mean to say, Tom, that you're
going to have a try for a government prize for a submarine, after all."

"No, not a submarine prize, dad," and the youth laughed.  "Though our
Advance would take the prize away from almost any other under-water
boat, I imagine. No, it's another prize I'm thinking about."

"What do you mean?"

"Well, I see by this paper that the Touring Club of America has offered
three thousand dollars for the speediest electric car.  The tests are
to come off this fall, on a new and specially built track on Long
Island, and it's to be an endurance contest for twenty-four hours, or a
race for distance, they haven't yet decided. But I'm going to have a
try for it, dad, and, besides winning the prize, I think I'll take Andy
Foger down a peg.

"What's Andy been doing now?"

"Oh, nothing more than usual. He's always mean, and looking for a
chance to make trouble for me, but I didn't refer to anything special.
He has a new auto, you know, and he boasts that it's the fastest one in
this country. I'll show him that it isn't, for I'm going to win this
prize with the speediest car on the road."

"But, Tom, you haven't any automobile, you know," and Mr. Swift looked
anxiously at his son, who was smiling confidently. "You can't be going
to make your motor-cycle into an auto; are you?"

"No, dad."

"Then how are you going to take part in the prize contest?  Besides,
electric cars, as far as I know, aren't specially speedy."

"I know it, and one reason why this club has arranged the contest is to
improve the quality of electric automobiles. I'm going to build an
electric runabout, dad."

"An electric runabout?  But it will have to be operated with a storage
battery, Tom, and you haven't--"

"I guess you're going to say I haven't any storage battery, dad,"
interrupted Mr. Swift's son. "Well, I haven't yet, but I'm going to
have one. I've been working on--"

"Oh, ho!" exclaimed the aged inventor with a laugh. "So that's what
you've been tinkering over these last few weeks, eh, Tom?  I suspected
it was some new invention, but I didn't suppose it was that. Well, how
are you coming on with it?"

"Pretty good, I think. I've got a new idea for a battery, and I made an
experimental one. I gave it some pretty severe tests, and it worked
fine."

"But you haven't tried it out in a car yet, over rough roads, and under
severe conditions have you?"

"No, I haven't had a chance. In fact, when I invented the battery I had
no idea of using it on a car I thought it might answer for commercial
purposes, or for storing a current generated by windmills. But when I
read that account in the papers of the Touring Club, offering a prize
for the best electric car, it occurred to me that I might put my
battery into an auto, and win."

"Hum," remarked Mr. Swift musingly. "I don't take much stock in
electric autos, Tom. Gasolene seems to be the best, or perhaps steam,
generated by gasolene. I'm afraid you'll be disappointed.  All the
electric runabouts I ever saw, while they were very nice cars, didn't
seem able to go so very fast, or very far."

"That's true, but it's because they didn't have the right kind of a
battery. You know an electric locomotive can make pretty good speed,
Dad. Over a hundred miles an hour in tests."

"Yes, but they don't run by storage batteries. They have a third rail,
and powerful motors," and Mr. Swift looked quizzically at his son. He
loved to argue with him, for he said it made Tom think, and often the
two would thus thresh out some knotty point of an invention, to the
interests of both.

"Of course, Dad, there is a good deal of theory in what I'm thinking
of," the lad admitted. "But it does seem to me that if you put the
right kind of a battery into an automobile, it could scoot along pretty
lively. Look what speed a trolley car can make."

"Yes, Tom, but there again they get their power from an overhead wire."

"Some of them don't. There's a new storage battery been invented by a
New Jersey man, which does as well as the third rail or the overhead
wire. It was after reading about his battery that I thought of a plan
for mine. It isn't anything like his; perhaps not as good in some ways,
but, for what I want, it is better in some respects, I think. For one
thing it can be recharged very quickly."

"Now Tom, look here," said Mr. Swift earnestly, laying aside his
papers, and coming over to where his son sat. "You know I never
interfere with your inventions. In fact, the more you think of the
better I like it. The airship you helped build certainly did all that
could be desired, and--"

"That reminds me. Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon are out in it now,"
interrupted Tom. "They ought to be back soon. Yes, Dad, the airship Red
Cloud certainly scooted along."

"And the submarine, too," continued the aged inventor. "Your ideas
regarding that were of service to me, and helped in our task of
recovering the treasure, but I'm afraid you're going to be disappointed
in the storage battery. You may get it to work, but I don't believe you
can make it powerful enough to attain any great speed. Why don't you
confine yourself to making a battery for stationary work?"

"Because, Dad, I believe I can build a speedy car, and I'm going to try
it. Besides I want to race Andy Foger, and beat him, even if I don't
win the prize. I'm going to build that car, and it will make fast time."

"Well, go ahead, Tom," responded his father, after a pause. "Of course
you can use the shops here as much as you want, and Mr. Sharp, Mr.
Jackson, and I will help you all we can. Only don't be disappointed,
that's all."

"I won't, Dad. Suppose you come out to my shop and I'll show you a
sample battery I've been testing for the last week. I have it geared to
a small motor, and it's been running steadily for some time. I want to
see what sort of a record it's made."

Father and son crossed the yard, and entered a shop which the lad
considered exclusively his own. There he had made many machines, and
pieces of apparatus, and had invented a number of articles which had
been patented, and yielded him considerable of an income.

"There's the battery, Dad," he said, pointing to a complicated
mechanism in one corner.

"What's that buzzing noise?" asked Mr. Swift. "That's the little motor
I run from the new cells. Look here," and Tom switched on an electric
light above the experimental battery, from which he hoped so much. It
consisted of a steel can, about the size of the square gallon tin in
which maple syrup comes, and from it ran two wires which were attached
to a small motor that was industriously whirring away.

Tom looked at a registering gauge connected with it.

"That's pretty good," remarked the young inventor.

"What is it, Tom?" and his father peered about the shop.

"Why this motor has run an equivalent of two hundred miles on one
charging of the battery! That's much better than I expected.  I thought
if I got a hundred out of it I'd be doing well. Dad, I believe, after I
improve my battery a bit, that I'll have the very thing I want!  I'll
install a set of them in a car, and it will go like the wind. I'll--"
Tom's enthusiastic remarks were suddenly interrupted by a low, rumbling
sound.

"Thunder!" exclaimed Mr. Swift. "The storm is coming, and Mr. Sharp and
Mr. Damon in the airship--"

Hardly had he spoken than there sounded a crash on the roof of the
Swift house, not far away. At the same time there came cries of
distress, and the crash was repeated.

"Come on, Dad!  Something has happened!" yelled Tom, dashing from the
shop, followed by his parent. They found themselves in the midst of a
rain storm, as they raced toward the house, on the roof of which the
smashing noise was again heard.




CHAPTER II

MR. DAMON'S STEERING


Tom Swift was a lad of action, and his quickness in hurrying out to
investigate what had happened when he was explaining about his new
battery, was characteristic of him. Those of my readers who know him,
through having read the previous books of this series, need not be told
this, but you who, perhaps, are just making his acquaintance, may care
to know a little more about him.

As told in my first book, "Tom Swift and His Motor-Cycle" the young
inventor lived with his father, Barton Swift, a widower, in the town of
Shopton, New York. Mr. Swift was also an inventor of note.

In my initial volume of this series, Tom became possessed of a
motor-cycle in a peculiar way. It was sold to him by a Mr. Wakefield
Damon, a wealthy gentleman who was unfortunate in riding it. On his
speedy machine, which Tom improved by several inventions, he had a
number of adventures. The principal one was being attacked by a number
of bad men, known as the "Happy Harry Gang," who wished to obtain
possession of a valuable turbine patent model belonging to Mr. Swift.
Tom was taking it to a lawyer, when he was waylaid, and chloroformed.
Later he traced the gang, and, with the assistance of Mr. Damon and
Eradicate Sampson, an aged colored man who made a living for himself
and his mule, Boomerang, by doing odd jobs, the lad found the thieves
and recovered a motor-boat which had been stolen. But the men got away.

In the second volume, called "Tom Swift and His Motor-Boat," Tom bought
at auction the boat stolen by, and recovered from, the thieves, and
proceeded to improve it. While he was taking his father out on a cruise
for Mr. Swift's health, the Happy Harry Gang made a successful attempt
to steal some valuable inventions from the Swift house. Tom started to
trace them, and incidentally he raced and beat Andy Foger, a rich
bully. On their way down the lake, after the robbery, Tom, his father
and Ned Newton, Tom's chum, saw a man hanging from the trapeze of a
blazing balloon over Lake Carlopa. The balloonist was Mr. John Sharp
and he was rescued by Tom in a thrilling fashion. In his motor-boat,
Tom had much pleasure, not the least of which was taking out a young
lady named Miss Mary Nestor, whose acquaintance he had made after
stopping her runaway horse, which his bicycle had frightened.  Tom's
association with  Miss Nestor soon ripened into something deeper than
mere friendship.

It developed that Mr. Sharp, whom Tom had saved from the burning
balloon, was an aeronaut of note, and had once planned to build an
airship. After his recovery from his thrilling experience, he mentioned
the matter to Mr. Swift and his son, with whom he took up his
residence. This fitted right in with Tom's ideas, and soon father, son
and the balloonist were constructing the Red Cloud, as they named their
airship. It was finally completed, as related in "Tom Swift and His
Airship," made a successful trial trip, and won a prize. It was planned
to make a longer journey, and Tom, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon agreed to go
together. Mr. Damon was an odd individual, who was continuously
blessing some part of his anatomy, his clothing or some inanimate
object but, for all that, he was a fine man.

The night before Tom and his friends started off in their airship, the
Shopton Bank vault was blown open and seventy-five thousand dollars was
taken. Tom and his friends did not know of this, but, no sooner had the
young inventor, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon sailed away, than the police
arrived at Mr. Swift's house to arrest them. They were charged with the
robbery, and with having sailed away with the booty.

It appeared that Andy Foger said he had seen Tom hanging around the
bank the night of the robbery, with a bag of burglar tools in his
possession. Search was immediately begun for the airship, the occupants
of which were, meanwhile, speeding on.

Tom and his two friends had trouble. They were nearly burned up in a
forest fire, and were fired upon by a crowd of people with rifles, who,
reading of the bank robbery and the reward offered for the capture of
the thieves, hoped to bring down the airship.  The fact that they were
fired upon caused Tom and the two aeronauts to descend to make an
investigation, and for the first time they learned of the bank theft.
How they got track of the real robbers, took the sheriff with them in
the airship, and raided the gang will be found set down at length in
the book.  Also how Tom administered well-deserved thrashing to Andy
Foger.

Mr. Swift did not accompany his son in the airship, and when asked why
he did not care to make the trip, said he was working on a new type of
submarine boat, which he hoped to enter in the government trials, to
win a prize. In the fourth volume of the series, called "Tom Swift and
his Submarine," you may read how successful Mr. Swift was.

When the submarine, called the Advance, was finished, the party made a
trip to recover three hundred thousand dollars in gold from a sunken
treasure ship, off the coast of Uruguay, South America. They sailed
beneath the seas for many miles, and were in great peril at times. One
reason for this was that a rival firm of submarine builders got wind of
the treasure, and tried to get ahead of the Swifts in recovering it.
How Tom and his friends succeeded in their quest, how they nearly
perished at the bottom of the sea, how they were captured by a foreign
war vessel, and sentenced to death, how they fought with a school of
giant sharks and how they blew up the wreck to recover the money is all
told of in the book.

On their return to civilization with the gold, Mr. Swift, Tom, and
their friends deposited the money in the Shopton Bank, where Ned Newton
worked. Ned was a bright lad, but had not been advanced as rapidly as
he deserved, and Tom knew this. He asked his father to speak to the
president, Mr. Pendergast, in Ned's behalf, and, as a result the lad
was made assistant cashier, for the request of a man who controlled a
three hundred thousand dollar deposit was not to be despised.

In building the submarine Tom and his father rented a large cottage on
the New Jersey seacoast, but, on returning from their treasure-quest
they went back to Shopton, leaving the submarine at the boathouse of
the shore cottage, which was near the city of Atlantis. That was in the
fall of the year, and all that winter the young inventor had been busy
on many things, not the least of which was his storage battery. It was
now spring, and seeing the item in the paper, about the touring club
prize for an electric auto, had given him a new idea.

But all thoughts of electric cars, and everything else, were driven
from the mind of the young man, when, with his father, he rushed out to
see the cause of the crash on the roof of the Swift homestead.

"There's something up there, Tom," called his father, as he splashed on
through the rain.

"That's right," added his son. "And somebody, too, to judge by the fuss
they're making."

"Maybe the house has been struck by lightning!" suggested the aged
inventor.

"No, the storm isn't severe enough for that; and, besides, if the house
had been struck you'd hear Mrs. Baggert yelling, Dad.  She--"

At that moment a woman's voice cried out:

"Mr. Swift! Tom! Where are you? Something dreadful has happened!"

"There she goes!" remarked Mr. Swift, as he splashed into a mud puddle.

"Bless my deflection rudder!" suddenly cried a voice from the flat roof
of the Swift house. "Hello! I say, is anyone down there?"

"Yes, we are," answered Tom. "Is that you, Mr. Damon?"

"Bless my collar button! It certainly is."

"Where's Mr. Sharp? I don't hear him."

"Oh, I'm here all right," answered the balloonist. "I'm trying to get
the airship clear of the chimney. Mr. Damon--"

"Yes, I steered wrong!" interrupted the odd man. "Bless my liver pin,
but it was so dark I couldn't see, and when that clap of thunder came I
shifted the deflection rudder instead of the lateral one, and tried to
knock over your chimney."

"Are either of you hurt?" asked Mr. Swift anxiously.

"No, not at all," replied Mr. Sharp. "We were moving slowly, ready for
a landing."

"Is the airship damaged?" inquired Tom.

"I don't know. Not much, I guess," was the answer of the aeronaut.
"I've stopped the engine, and I don't like to start it again until I
can see what shape we're in."

"I'll come up, with Mr. Jackson," called Tom, and he hastily summoned
Garret Jackson, an engineer, who had been in the service of Mr. Swift
for many years. Together they proceeded to the roof by a stairway that
led to a scuttle.

"Is anyone killed?" asked Mrs. Baggert, as Tom hurried up the stairs.
"Don't tell me there is, Tom!"

"Well, I don't have to tell you, for no one is," replied the young
inventor with a laugh. "It's all right. The airship tried to collide
with the chimney, that's all."

He was soon on the large, flat roof of the dwelling, and, with the aid
of lanterns he, the engineer, and Mr. Sharp made a hasty examination.

"Anything wrong?" inquired Mr. Damon, looking out from the cabin of the
Red Cloud where he had taken refuge after the crash, and to get out of
the wet.

"Not much," answered Tom. "One of the forward planes is smashed, but we
can rise by means of the gas, and float down. Is all clear, Mr. Sharp?"

"All clear," replied the balloonist, for the airship had now been
wheeled back from the entanglement with the chimney.

"Then here we go!" cried Tom, as he and the aeronaut entered the craft,
while Mr. Jackson descended through the scuttle.

There came a fiercer burst to the storm, and, amid a series of dazzling
lightning flashes and the muttering of thunder, the airship rose from
the roof. Tom switched on the search-light, and, starting the big
propellers, guided the craft skillfully toward the big shed where it
was housed when not in use.

With the grace of a bird it turned about in the air, and settled to the
ground. It was the work of but a few minutes to run it into the shed.
Then they all started for the house.

"Bless my umbrella!  How it rains!" cried Mr. Damon, as he splashed on
through numerous puddles. "We got back just in time, Mr. Sharp."

"Where did you go?" asked the lad.

"Why we took a flight of about fifty miles and stopped at my house in
Waterfield for supper. Were you anxious about us?"

"A little when it began to storm," replied Tom.

"Anything new since we left?" asked Mr. Sharp, for it was the custom of
himself, or some of his friends, to take little trips in the airship.
They thought no more of it than many do of going for a short spin in an
automobile.

"Yes, there is something new," said Mr. Swift, as the party, all
drenched now, reached the broad veranda.

"Bless my gaiters!" cried Mr. Damon. "What is it? I hope the Happy
Harry gang hasn't robbed you again; nor Berg and his men tried to take
that treasure away from us, after we worked so hard to get it from the
wreck."

"No, it isn't that," replied Mr. Swift. "The truth is that Tom thinks
he has invented a storage battery that will revolutionize matters. He's
going to build an electric automobile, he says."

"I am," declared the lad, as the others looked at him, "and it will be
the speediest one you ever saw, too!"




CHAPTER III

THE MOTORCYCLE WINS


"Well, Tom," remarked Mr. Sharp, after a pause following the lad's
announcement. "I didn't know you had any ambitions in that line. Tell
us more about the battery. What system do you use; lead plates and
sulphuric acid?"

"Oh, that's out of date long ago," declared the lad.

"Well, I don't know much about electricity," admitted the aeronaut.
"I'll take my chances in an airship or a balloon, but when it comes to
electricity I'm down and out."

"So am I," admitted Mr. Damon. "Bless my gizzard, it's all I can do to
put a new spark plug in my automobile. Where is your new battery, Tom?"

"Out in my shop, running yet if it hasn't been frightened by the
airship smash," replied the lad, somewhat proudly. "It's an oxide of
nickel battery, with steel and oxide of iron negative electrodes."

"What solution do you use, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift. "I didn't get that
far in questioning you before the crash came," he added.

"Well I have, in the experimental battery, a solution of potassium
hydrate," replied the lad, "but I think I'm going to change it, and add
some lithium hydrate to it. I think that will make it stronger."

"Bless my watch chain!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "It's all Greek to me.
Suppose you let us see it, Tom? I like to see wheels go 'round, but I'm
not much of a hand for chemical terms."

"If you're sure you're not hurt by the airship smash, I will," declared
the lad.

"Oh, we're not hurt a bit," insisted Mr. Sharp. "As I said we were
moving slow, for I knew it was about time to land. Mr. Damon was
steering--"

"Yes I thought I'd try my hand at it, as it seemed so easy,"
interrupted the eccentric man. "But never again--not for mine! I
couldn't see the house, and, before I knew it we were right over the
roof. Then the chimney seemed to stick itself up suddenly in front of
us, and--well, you know the rest. I'm willing to pay for any damage I
caused."

"Oh, not at all!" replied Tom. "It's easy enough to put on a new plane,
or, for that matter, we can operate the Red Cloud without it. But come
on, I'll show you my sample battery."

"Here, take umbrellas!" Mrs. Baggert called after them as they started
toward the shop, for it was still raining.

"We don't mind getting wet," replied the young inventor. "It's in the
interests of science."

"Maybe it is. You don't mind a wetting, but I mind you coming in and
dripping water all over the carpets!" retorted the housekeeper.

"Bless my overshoes, I'm afraid we have wet the carpets a trifle now,"
admitted Mr. Damon ruefully, as he looked down at a puddle, which had
formed where he had been standing.

"That's the reason I want you to take umbrellas this trip," insisted
Mrs. Baggert.

They complied, and were soon in the shop, where Tom explained his
battery. The small motor was still running and had, as the lad had
said, gone the equivalent of over two hundred miles.

"If a small battery does as well as that, what will a larger one do?"
asked Mr. Damon.

"Much better, I hope," replied the youth. "But Dad doesn't seem to have
much faith in them."

"Well," admitted Mr. Swift, "I must say I am skeptical. Still, I
acknowledge Tom has done some pretty good work along electrical lines.
He helped me with the positive and negative plates on the submarine,
and, maybe--well, we'll wait and see," he concluded.

"If you build a car I hope you give me a ride in it," said Mr. Damon.
"I've ridden fast in the air, and swiftly on top of, and under, the
water. Now I'd like to ride rapidly on top of the earth. The gasolene
auto doesn't go very fast."

"I'll give you a ride that will make your hair stand up!" prophesied
Tom, and the time was to come when he would make good that prediction.

The little party in the machine shop talked at some length about Tom's
battery. He showed them how it was constructed, and gave them some of
his ideas regarding the new type of auto he planned to build.

"Well," remarked Mr. Swift at length, "if you want to keep your brain
fresh, Tom, you must get to bed earlier than this. It's nearly twelve
o'clock."

"And I want to get up early!" exclaimed the lad. "I'm going to start to
build a larger battery to-morrow."

"And I'm going to repair the airship," added Mr. Sharp.

"Bless my night cap, I promised my wife I'd be home early to-night,
too!" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I don't fancy making the trip back
to Waterfield in my auto, though. Something will be sure to happen.
I'll blow out a tire, or a spark plug will get sooty on me and--"

"It's raining harder than ever," interrupted Tom. "Better stay here
to-night. You can telephone home."  Which Mr. Damon did.

Tom was up early the next morning, in spite of the fact that he did not
go to bed in good season, and before breakfast he was working at his
new storage battery. After the meal he hurried back to the shop, but it
was not long before he came out, wheeling his motor-cycle.

"Where are you going, Tom?" asked Mrs. Baggert.

"Oh, I've got to go to Mansburg to get some steel tubes for my new
battery," he replied. "I thought I had some large enough, but I
haven't."  Mansburg was a good-sized town, near Shopton.

"Then I wish you'd bring me a bottle of stove polish," requested the
housekeeper. "The liquid kind. I'm out of it, and the stove is as red
as a cow."

"All right," agreed the lad, as he leaped into the saddle and pedaled
off down the road. A moment later he had turned on the power, and was
speeding along the highway, which was in good condition on account of
the shower of the night before.

Tom was thinking so deeply of his new invention, and planning what he
would do when he had his electric runabout built, that, almost before
he knew it, he had reached Mansburg, purchased the steel tubes, and the
stove polish, and was on his way back again.

As he was speeding along on a level road, he heard, coming behind him,
an automobile. The lad turned to one side, but, in spite of this the
party in the car began a serenade of the electric siren, and kept it
up, making a wild discord.

"What's the matter with those fellows!" inquired Tom of himself.
"Haven't I given them enough of the road, or has their steering gear
broken?"

He looked back over his shoulder, and it needed but a glance to show
that the car was all right, as regarded the steering apparatus. And it
needed only another glance to disclose the reason for the shrill sound
of the siren.

"Andy Foger!" exclaimed Tom. "I might have known. And Sam and Pete are
with him. Well, if he wants to make me get off the road, he'll find
that I've got as much right as he has!"

He kept on a straight course, wondering if the red-haired, and
squint-eyed bully would dare try to damage the motor-cycle.

A little later Andy's car was beside Tom.

"Why don't you get out of the way," demanded Sam, who could usually be
depended on to aid Andy in all his mean tricks.

"Because I'm entitled to half the road," retorted our hero.

"Humph! A slow-moving machine like yours hasn't any right on the road,"
sneered Andy, who had slowed down his car somewhat.

"I haven't, eh?" demanded Tom. "Well, if you'll get down out of that
car for a few minutes I'll soon show you what my rights are!"

Now Andy, more than once, had come to personal encounters with Tom,
much to the anguish of the bully. He did not relish another
chastisement, but his mean spirit could not brook interference.

"Don't you want a race?" he inquired of Tom, in a sneering tone. "I'll
give you a mile start, and beat you! I've got the fastest car built!"

"You have, eh?" asked Tom, while a grim look came over his face. "Maybe
you'll think differently some day."

"Aw, he's afraid to race; come on," suggested Pete. "Don't bother with
him, Andy."

"No, I guess it wouldn't be worth my while," was the reply of the
bully, and he threw the second gear into place, and began to move away
from the young inventor.

Tom was just as much pleased to be left alone, but he did not want Andy
Foger to think that he could have matters all his own way. Tom's
motor-cycle, since he had made some adjustments to it, was very swift.
In fact there were few autos that could beat it.  He had never tried it
against Andy's new car, and he was anxious to do so.

"I wonder if I would stand any chance, racing him?" thought the young
inventor, as he saw the car slowly pulling away from him.  "I think
I'll wait until he gets some distance ahead, and then I'll see how near
I can come to him. If I get anywhere near him I'm pretty sure I can
pass him. I'll try it."

When Andy and his cronies looked back, Tom did not appear to be doing
anything save moving along at moderate speed on his machine.

"You don't dare race!" Pete Bailey shouted to him.

"Wait," was what Tom whispered to himself.

Andy's car was now some distance ahead. The young inventor waited a
little longer, and then turned more power into his machine. It leaped
forward and began to "eat up the road," as Tom expressed it. He had
seen Andy throw in the third gear, but knew that there was a fourth
speed on the bully's car.

"I don't know whether I can beat him on that or not," thought the lad
dubiously. "If I try, and fail, they'll laugh at me. But I don't think
I'm going to fail."

Faster and faster he rode. He was rapidly overhauling Andy's car now,
and, as they heard him approach, the three cronies turned around.

"He's going to race you, after all, Andy!" cried Sam.

"You mean he's going to try," sneered Andy. "I'll give him all the
racing he wants!"

In another few seconds Tom was beside the auto, and would have passed
it, only Andy opened his throttle a little more. For a moment the auto
jumped ahead, and then, as our hero turned on still more power, he
easily held his own.

"Aw, you can never beat us!" yelled Pete.

"Of course not!" added Sam.

"I'll leave him behind in a second," prophesied Andy. "Wait until I
throw in the other gear," he added to his cronies in a low voice. "He
thinks he's going to beat me. I'll let him think so, and then I'll
spurt ahead."

The two machines were now racing along side by side. Andy's car was
going the limit on third gear, but he still had the fourth gear in
reserve. Tom, too, still had a little margin of speed.

Suddenly Andy reached forward and yanked on a lever. There was a
grinding of cogs as the fourth gear slipped into place, for Andy did
not handle his car skillfully. The effect, however, was at once
apparent. The automobile shot forward.

"Now where are you, Tom Swift?" cried Sam.

Tom said nothing. He merely shifted a lever, and got a better spark. He
also turned on a little more gasolene and opened the muffler. The
quickness with which his motor-cycle shot forward almost threw him from
the saddle, but he had a tight grip on the handle bars. He whizzed past
the auto, but, as the latter gathered speed, it crept up to him, and,
once more was on even terms. Much chagrined at seeing Tom hold pace
with him, even for an instant, Andy shouted:

"Get over on your own side there! You're crowding me!"

"I am not!" yelled back Tom, above the explosions of his machine.

The two were now racing furiously, and Andy, with a savage look, tried
to get more speed out of his car. In spite of all the bully did, Tom
was gradually forging ahead. A little hill was now in view.

"Here's where I make him take my dust!" cried Andy, but, to his
surprise Tom still kept ahead. The auto began to lose ground, for it
was not made to take hills on high gear.

"Change to third gear quick!" cried Sam.

Andy tried to do it. There was a hesitancy on the part of his car. It
seemed to balk. Tom, looking back, slowed up a trifle. He could afford
to, as Andy was being beaten.

"Go on! Go on!" begged Pete. "You'll have to keep on fourth gear to
beat him, Andy."

"That's what!" murmured the bully. Once more he shifted the gears.
There was a grinding, smashing sound, and the car lost speed. Then it
slowed up still more, and finally stopped. Then it began to back down
hill.

"I've stripped those blamed gears!" exclaimed Andy ruefully.

"Can't you beat him?" asked Pete.

"I could have, easily, if my gears hadn't broken," declared the bully,
but, as a matter of fact, he could not have done so. "I oughtn't to
have changed, going up hill," he added, as he jammed on the brakes, to
stop the car from sliding down the slope.

Tom saw and heard.

"I thought you were so anxious to race," he said, exultantly, as well
he might. "I don't want to try a contest down hill, though, Andy," and
he laughed at the red-haired lad, who was furious.

"Aw, go on!" was all the retort the squint-eyed one could think of to
make.

"I am going on," replied our hero. "Just to show you that I can go down
hill, watch me."

He turned his motor-cycle, and approached Andy's stalled car, for Tom
was some distance in advance of it, up the slope by this time. As he
approached the auto, containing the three disconcerted cronies,
something bounded out of Tom's pocket. It was the bottle of stove
blacking he had purchased for Mrs. Baggert. The bottle fell in the soft
dirt in front of his forward wheel, and a curious thing happened.
Perhaps you have seen a bicycle or auto tire strike a stone at an
angle, and throw it into the air with great force. That was what
happened to the bottle. Tom's front wheel struck the cork, which fitted
tightly, and, just as when you hit one end of the wooden "catty" and it
bounds up, the bottle described a curve through the air, and flew
straight toward Andy's car. It struck the brass frame of the wind
shield with a crash.

The bottle broke, and in an instant the black liquid was spattered all
over Andy, Sam and Pete. It could not have been done more effectively
if Tom had thrown it by hand. All over their clothes, their hands and
faces, and the front of the car went the dreary black. Tom looked on,
hardly able to believe what he saw.

"Wow! Wup! Ug! Blug! Mug!" spluttered Sam, who had some of the stuff in
his mouth.

"Oh! Oh!" yelled Pete.

"You did that on purpose, Tom Swift!" shouted Andy, wiping some of the
blacking from his left eye. "I'll have you arrested for that! You've
ruined my car, and look at my suit!"

"Mine's worse!" murmured Sam, glancing down at his light trousers,
which were of the polka-dot pattern now.

"No, mine is," insisted Pete, whose white shirt was of the hue of a
stove pipe.

Andy wiped some of the black stuff from his nose, whence it was
dropping on the steering wheel.

"You just wait!" the bully called to Tom. "I'll get even with you for
this!"

"It was an accident! I didn't mean to do that," explained Tom, trying
not to laugh, as he dismounted from his motor-cycle, ready to render
what assistance he could.




CHAPTER IV

TALK OF A NEW BANK


The three cronies were in a sorrowful plight. The black fluid dripped
from them, and formed little puddles in the car. Andy had used his
handkerchief to wipe some of the stuff from his face, but the linen was
soon useless, for it quickly absorbed the blacking.

"There's a little brook over here," volunteered Tom. "You might wash in
that. The stuff comes off easily. It isn't like ink," and he had to
laugh, as he thought of the happening.

"Here! You quit that!" ordered Andy. "You've gone too far, Tom Swift!"

"Didn't I tell you it was an accident?" inquired the young inventor.

"It wasn't!" cried Sam. "You threw the bottle at us! I saw you!"

"It slipped from my pocket," declared the youth, and he described how
the accident occurred. "I'll help you clean your car, Andy," he added.

"I don't want your help! If you come near me I'll--I'll punch your
nose!" cried Andy, now almost beside himself with rage.

"All right, if you don't want my help I don't care," answered Tom, glad
enough not to have to soil his hands and clothes. He felt that it was
partly his fault, and he would have done all he could to remedy
matters, but his good offers being declined, he felt that it was
useless to insist further.

He remounted his motor-cycle, and rode off, the last view he had of the
trio being one where they were at the edge of the brook, trying to
remove the worst traces of the black fluid. As Tom turned around for a
final glimpse, Andy shook his fist at him, and called out something.

"I guess Andy'll have it in for me," mused Tom. "Well, I can't help it.
I owed him something on account, but I didn't figure on paying it in
just this way," and he thought of the time the bully had locked him in
the ballast tanks of the submarine, thereby nearly smothering him to
death.

That night Andy Foger told his father what had happened, for Mr. Foger
inquired the reason for the black stains on his son's face and hands.
But Andy did not give the true version. He said Tom had purposely
thrown the bottle of blacking at him.

"So that's the kind of a lad Tom Swift is, eh?" remarked Andy's father.
"Well, Andy, I think you will soon have a chance to get even with him."

"How, pop?"

"I can't tell you now, but I have a plan for making Tom sorry he ever
did anything to you, and I will also pay back some old scores to Mr.
Swift and Mr. Damon. I'll ruin their bank for them, that's what I'll
do."

"Ruin their bank, pop? How?"

"You wait and see. The Swift crowd will get off their high horse soon,
or I'm mistaken. My plans are nearly completed, but I can't tell you
about them. I'll ruin Mr. Swift, though, that's what I'll do," and Mr.
Foger shook his head determinedly.

Tom was soon at his home, and Mrs. Baggert, hearing the noise of his
machine, as it entered the front yard, came to the side door.

"Where's my blacking?" she asked, as our hero dismounted and untied the
bundle of steel tubes he had purchased.

"I--I used it," he answered, laughing.

"Tom Swift! You don't mean to say you took my stove polish to use in
your battery, do you?"

"No, I used it to polish off Andy Foger and some of his cronies," and
the young inventor told, with much gusto, what had happened. Mrs.
Baggert could not help joining in the laugh, and when Tom offered to
ride back and purchase some more of the polish for her, she said it did
not matter, as she could wait until the next day.

The lad was soon busy in his machine shop, making several larger cells
for the new storage battery. He wanted to give it a more severe test.
He worked for several days on this, and when he had one unit of cells
complete, he attached the motor for an efficiency trial.

"We'll see how many miles that will make," he remarked to his father.

"Have you thought anything of the type of car you are going to build?"
asked the aged inventor of his son.

"Yes, somewhat. It will be almost of the regulation style, but with two
removable seats at the rear, with curtains for protection, and a place
in front for two persons. This can also be protected with curtains when
desired."

"But what about the motors and the battery?"

"They will be located under the middle of the car. There will be one
set of batteries there, together with the motor, and another set of
batteries will be placed under the removable seats in what I call the
tonneau, though, of course, it isn't really that. A smaller set will
also be placed forward, and there will be ample room for carrying tools
and such things."

"About how far do you expect your car will go with one charging of the
battery?"

"Well, if I can make it do three hundred miles I'll be satisfied, but
I'm going to try for four hundred."

"What will you do when your battery runs out?"

"Recharge it."

"Suppose you're not near a charging station?"

"Well, Dad, of course those are some of the details I've got to work
out. I'm planning a register gauge now, that will give warning about
fifty miles before the battery is run down. That will leave me a margin
to work on. And I'm going to have it fixed so I can take current from
any trolley line, as well as from a regular charging station. My battery
will be capable of being recharged very quickly, or, in case of need, I
can take out the old cells and put in new ones.

"That's a very good idea. Well, I hope you succeed."

A few evenings after this, when Tom was busy in his machine shop, he
heard some one enter. He looked up from the gauge of the motor, which
he was studying, and, for a moment, he could make out nothing in the
dark interior of the shop, for he was working in a brilliant light.

"Who's there?" he called sharply, for, more than once unscrupulous men
had endeavored to sneak into the Swift shops to steal ideas of
inventions; if not the actual apparatus itself.

"It's me--Ned Newton," was the cheerful reply.

"Oh, hello, Ned! I was wondering what had become of you," responded
Tom. "Where have you been lately?"

"Oh, working overtime."

"What's the occasion?"

"We're trying out a new system to increase the bank business."

"What's the matter? Aren't you folks getting business enough, after the
big deposits we made of the bullion from the wreck?"

"Oh, it's not that. But haven't you heard the news? There is talk of
starting a rival bank in Shopton, and that may make us hustle to hold
what business we have, to say nothing of getting new customers."

"A new bank, eh? Who's going to start it?"

"Andy Foger's father, I hear. You know he was a director in our bank,
but he got out last week."

"What for?"

"Well, he had some difficulty with Mr. Pendergast, the president. I
fancy you had something to do with it, too."

"I?"  Tom was plainly surprised.

"Yes, you know you and Mr. Damon and Mr. Sharp captured the bank
robbers, and got back most of the money."

"I guess I do remember it! I wish you could have seen the gang when we
raided them from the clouds, in our airship!"

"Well, you know Andy Foger hoped to collect the five thousand dollars
reward for telling the police that you were the thief, and of course he
got fooled, for you got the reward. Mr. Foger expected his son would
collect the money, and when Andy got left, it made him sore. He's had a
grudge against Mr. Pendergast, and all the other bank officials ever
since, and now he's going to start a rival bank. So that's why I said
it was partly due to you."

"Oh, I see. I thought at first you meant that it was on account of
something that happened the other day."

"What was that?"

"Andy, Sam and Pete got the contents of a bottle of stove blacking,"
and Tom related the occurrence, at which Ned laughed heartily.

"I wouldn't be surprised though," added Ned, "to learn that Mr. Foger
started the new bank more for revenge than anything else."

"So that's the reason you've been working late, eh?" went on Tom.
"Getting ready for competition. Do you think a new bank will hurt the
one you're with?"

"Well, it might," admitted Ned. "It's bound to make a change, anyhow,
and now that I have a good position I don't want to lose it. I take
more of an interest in the institution now that I'm assistant cashier,
than I did when I was a clerk. So, naturally, I'm a little worried."

"Say, don't let it worry you," begged Tom, earnestly.

"Why not?"

"Because I know my father and Mr. Damon will stick to the old bank.
They won't have anything to do with the one Andy Foger's father starts.
Don't you worry."

"Well, that will help some," declared Ned. "They are both heavy
depositors, and if they stick to the old bank we can stand it even if
some of our smaller customers desert us."

"That's the way to talk," went on the young inventor. "Let Foger start
his bank. It won't hurt yours."

"What are you making now?" asked Ned, a little later, looking with
interest at the machinery over which Tom was bending, and to which he
was making adjustments.

"New electric automobile. I want to beat Andy Foger's car worse than I
did on my motor-cycle, and I also want to win a prize," and the lad
proceeded to relate the incidents leading up to his construction of the
storage battery.

Tom and Ned were in the shop until long past midnight, and then the
bank employee, with a look at his watch, exclaimed:

"Great Scott! I ought to be home."

"I'll run you over in Mr. Damon's car," proposed Tom. "He left it here
the other day, while he and his wife went off on a trip, and he said I
could use it whenever I wanted to."

"Good!" cried Ned.

The two lads came from Tom's particular workshop. As the young inventor
closed the door he started suddenly, as he snapped shut the lock.

"What's the matter?" asked Ned quickly.

"I thought I heard a noise," replied Tom.

They both listened. There was a slight rustling in some bushes near the
shop.

"It's a dog or a cat," declared Ned.

Tom took several cautious steps forward. Then he gave a spring, and
made a grab for some one or something.

"Here! You let me be!" yelled a protesting voice.

"I will when I find out what you mean by sneaking around here,"
retorted Tom, as he came back toward Ned, dragging with him a lad. "It
wasn't a dog or a cat, Ned," spoke the young inventor.  "It's Sam
Snedecker," and so it proved.

"You let me alone!" demanded Andy Foger's crony. "I ain't done nothin'
to you," he whined.

"Here, Ned, you hold him a minute, while I make an investigation,"
called Tom, handing his prisoner over to his chum. "Maybe Pete or Andy
are around."

"No, they ain't. I came alone," said Sam quickly, but Tom, not heeding,
opened the shop, and, after turning on the electric lights, procured a
lantern. He began a search of the shrubbery around the shop, while Ned
held to the struggling Sam.




CHAPTER V

A MIDNIGHT ENCOUNTER


The moment Tom disappeared behind his machine shop, Sam Snedecker began
a desperate struggle to escape from Ned Newton.  Now Ned was a muscular
lad, but his work in the bank was confining, and he did not have the
chance to get out doors and exercise, as Sam had. Consequently Ned had
his hands full in holding to the squirming crony of Andy Foger.

"You let me go!" demanded Sam, as he tried to twist loose.

"Not if I know it!" panted Ned.

Sam gave a sudden twist. Ned's foot slipped in the grass, and in a
moment he went down, with Sam on top of him. Still he did not let go,
and, finding he was still a prisoner Sam adopted new tactics.

Using his fists Sam began to pound Ned, but the bank employee, though
suffering, would not call for help, to summon back Tom, who was, by
this time, at the rear of the shop, looking about.  Silently in the
dark the two fought, and Ned found that Sam was getting away. Then
Ned's hand came in contact with Sam's ear. It was the misfortune of the
bully to have rather a large hearing apparatus, and once Ned got his
fingers on an ear there was room enough to afford a good grip. He
closed his hold tightly, and began to twist. This was too much for Sam.
He set up a lusty howl.

"Wow! Ouch! Let go!" he pleaded, and he ceased to pound Ned, and no
longer tried to escape. Tom came back on the run.

"What's the matter?" he cried. Then his light flashed on the two
prostrate lads, and he understood without asking any further questions.

"Get up!" he cried, seizing Sam by the back of his neck, and yanking
him to his feet. Ned arose, and secured a better grip on the sneaking
lad.

"What's up?" demanded Tom, and Ned explained, following it by the
question:

"See any more of 'em?"

"No, I guess he was here all alone," replied the young inventor. "What
do you mean by sneaking around here this time of night?" he demanded of
the captive.

"Don't you wish you knew?" was Sam's answer, with a leer. He realized
that he had a certain advantage.

"You'd better tell before I turn you over to the police!" said Tom,
sternly.

"You--you wouldn't do that; would you?" and Sam's voice that had been
bold, became shaky.

"You were trespassing on our property, and that's against the law,"
declared Tom. "We have signs posted, warning people to keep off."

"I didn't mean any harm," whined Sam.

"Then what were you doing here, at this hour?"

"I was just taking a short cut home. I was out riding with Andy in his
auto, and it broke down. I had to walk home, and I came this way. I
didn't know you didn't allow people to cross your back lot. I wasn't
doin' anything."

Tom hesitated. Sam might be telling the truth, but it was doubtful.

"What happened to Andy's auto?" the young inventor asked.

"He broke a wheel, going over a big stone on Berk's hill. He went to
tell some one in the repair shop to go after the car, and I came on
home. You've got no right to arrest me."

"I ought to, on general principles," commented Tom. "Well, skip out,
and don't you come around here again. I'm going to get a savage bull
dog, and the first one who comes sneaking around here after dark will
be sorry. Move along now!"

Tom and Ned released their holds of Sam, and the latter lost no time in
obeying the injunction to make himself scarce. He was soon lost to
sight in the darkness.

"Think he was up to some mischief?" asked Ned.

"I'm almost sure of it," replied Tom, "but I can't see anything wrong.
I guess we were too quick for him. I believe he, Andy and Pete Bailey
tried to put up some job on me."

"Maybe they wanted to damage your new battery or car," suggested Ned.

"Hardly that. The car hasn't been started yet, and as for the battery,
no one knows of it outside of you and my friends here.  I'm keeping it
secret. Well, if I'm going to take you home I'd better get a move on.
Wait here and I'll run out Mr. Damon's car."

In a short time Tom was guiding the machine over the road to Shopton,
Ned on the seat beside him. The young assistant cashier lived about a
mile the other side of the village, and the two chums were soon at his
house. Asking his friend to come and see him when he had a chance. Ned
bid his chum good night, and the young inventor started back home.

He was driving slowly along, thinking more of his new invention than
anything else, even more than of the mysterious visit of Sam Snedecker,
when the lights on Mr. Damon's car flashed upon something big, black
and bulky on the road just ahead of him.  Tom, brought suddenly out of
his fit of musing, jammed on the brakes, and steered to one side. Then
he saw that the object was a stalled auto. He had only time to note
this when a voice hailed him:

"Have you a tire pump you could lend us? Ours doesn't work, and we have
had a blowout."

There was something about the voice that was strangely familiar, and
Tom was wondering where he had heard it before, when into the glare of
the lamps on his machine stepped Mr. Foger--Andy's father!

"Why, Mr. Foger!" exclaimed Tom. "I didn't know it was you."

"Oh, it's Tom Swift," remarked the man, and he did not seem especially
pleased.

"Hey! What's that?" cried another voice, which Tom had no difficulty in
recognizing as belonging to Andy. "What's the matter, Dad?"

"Why it happens to be your--ahem! It's Tom Swift in this other auto,"
went on Mr. Foger. "I didn't know you had a car," he added.

"I haven't," answered the lad. "This belongs to Mr. Damon. But can you
see to fix your tire in the dark?" for Mr. Foger and his son had no
lamps lighted.

"Oh, we have it all fixed," declared the man, "and, just as we were
going to pump it up out lamps went out. Then we found that our pump
wouldn't work. If you have one I would be obliged for the use of it,"
and he spoke somewhat stiffly.

"Certainly," agreed Tom, cheerfully, for he had no special grudge
against Mr. Foger, though had he known Andy's father's plans, perhaps
our hero would not have so readily aided him. The young inventor got
down, removed one of his oil lamps in order that there might be some
light on the operation, and then brought over his pump.

"I heard you had an accident," said Tom, a chain of thoughts being
rapidly forged in his mind, as he thought of what Sam had told him.

"You heard of it?" repeated Mr. Foger, while Andy was busy pumping up
the tire.

"Yes, a friend who was out riding with you said you had broken a wheel
on Berk's hill. But I see he was slightly wrong. You're a good way from
Berk's hill, and it's a tire that is broken, not a wheel."

"But I don't understand," said Mr. Foger. "No friend has been out
riding with us. My son and I were out on a business trip, and--"

"Come on, pop. I've got it all pumped up. Jump in. There's your pump,
Tom Swift. Much obliged," muttered Andy hastily.  It was very evident
that he wanted to prevent any further conversation between his parent
and Tom.

"But I don't understand," went on the banker, clearly puzzled.  "What
friend gave you such information, Mr.--er--Tom Swift?"

"Sam Snedecker," replied the lad quickly. "I caught him sneaking around
my machine shop about an hour ago, and when I asked him what he was
doing he said he'd been out riding with Andy, and that they broke a
wheel. I'm glad it was only a blown-out tire," and Tom's voice had a
curious note in it.

"But there must be some mistake," insisted Mr. Foger. "Sam Snedecker
was not riding with us this evening. We have been over to
Waterfield--my son and I, and--"

"Come on, pop!" cried Andy desperately. "We must hurry home.  Mom will
be worried."

"Yes, I think she will. But I can't understand why Sam should say such
a thing. However, we are much obliged for the use of your pump, Swift,
and--"

But Andy prevented any further talk by starting the car with the
muffler open, making a great racket, and he hurriedly drove off, almost
before his father was seated, leaving Tom standing there in the road,
beside his pump and lantern.

"So," mused the young inventor, "there's some game on. Sam wasn't with
Andy, yet Andy evidently knew where Sam was, or he wouldn't have been
so anxious to choke off talk. Mr. Foger knew nothing of Sam, naturally.
But why have Andy and his father been on a midnight trip to Waterfield?"

That last question caused Tom to adopt a new line of thought.

"Waterfield," he mused. "That's where Mr. Damon lives. Mr. Damon is a
heavy depositor in the old bank. Mr. Foger is going to start a new
bank. I wonder if there's any connection there? This is getting
mysterious. I must keep my eyes open. I never expected to meet Andy and
his father to-night, any more than I expected to find Sam Snedecker
sneaking around my shop, but it's a good thing I discovered both
parties. I guess Andy must have had nervous prostration when I was
talking to his father," and Tom grinned at the thought. Then, picking
up the pump, and fastening the lantern in place, he drove Mr. Damon's
auto slowly back home.

Tom said nothing to his father or Mr. Sharp, the next morning, about
the incidents of the previous night. In the first place he could not
exactly understand them, and he wanted to devote more time to thinking
of them, before he mentioned the matter to his parent. Another reason
was that Mr. Swift was a very nervous person, and the least thing out
of the ordinary worried him. So the young inventor concluded to keep
quiet.

His first act, after going to look at the small motor, which was being
run with the larger, experimental storage battery, was to get out
pencil and paper.

"I've got to plan the electric auto now that my battery is in a fair
way to success," he said, for he noted that the one cell he had
constructed had done over twice as much mileage in proportion, as had
the small battery. "I'll soon start building the car," mused Tom, "and
then I'll enter it in the race. I must write to that touring club and
find how much time I have."

All that morning the young inventor drew plan after plan for an
electric runabout, and rejected them. Finally he threw aside paper and
pencil and exclaimed:

"It's no use. I can't think to-day. I'm dwelling too much on what
happened last night. I must clear my brain.

"I know what I'll do. I'll get in my motor-boat and take a run over to
Waterfield to see Mr. Damon. Maybe he's home by this time. Then I can
ask him what Mr. Foger wanted to see him about, if he did call."

It was a fine May morning, and Tom was soon in his boat, the Arrow,
gliding over Lake Carlopa, the waters of which sparkled in the sun. As
he speeded up his craft, the lad looked about, thinking he might catch
sight of Andy Foger, for the bully also owned a boat, called the Red
Streak and, more than once, in spite of the fact that Andy's craft was
the more powerful, Tom had beaten him in impromptu races. But there was
no sign of his rival this morning, and Tom kept on to Waterfield. He
found that Mr. Damon had not yet returned home.

"So far I've had my run for nothing," mused the youth. "Well, I might
as well spend the rest of the morning in the boat."

He swung his craft out into the lake, and headed back toward Mansburg,
intending to run up to the head of the body of water, which offered so
many attractions that beautiful morning.

As Tom passed a small dock he saw a girl just putting out in a rowboat.
The figure looked familiar and, having nothing special to do, the lad
steered over closer. His first view was confirmed, and he called out
cheerfully:

"Good morning, Miss Nestor. Going for a row?"

"Oh! Mr. Swift!" exclaimed the girl with a blush.  "I didn't hear you
coming. You startled me."

"Yes, the engine runs quite silently since I fixed it," resumed Tom.
"But where are you going?"

"I was going for a row," answered the girl, "but I have just discovered
that one of the oar locks is broken, so I am not going for a row," and
she laughed, showing her white, even teeth.

"That's too bad!" remarked the lad. "I don't suppose," he added
doubtfully, "that I could induce you to accept a motor-boat as a
substitute for a rowing craft, could I?" and he looked quizzically at
her.

"Are you asking me that as a hypothetical question?" she inquired.

"Yes," said Tom, trying not to smile.

"Well, if you are asking for information, merely, I will say that I
could be induced to make such a change," and her face was nearly as
grave as that of the young inventor's.

"What inducement would have to be used?" he asked.

"Suppose you just ask me in plain English to come and have a ride?" she
suggested.

"All right, I will!" exclaimed the youth.

"All right, then I'll come!" she retorted with a laugh, and a few
minutes later the two were in the Arrow, making a pretty picture as
they speeded up the lake.




CHAPTER VI

BUILDING THE CAR


"Well," remarked Tom to himself, about two hours later, when he had
left Mary Nestor at her dock, and was on his way home, "I feel better
than I did, and now I must do some hard thinking about my runabout. I
want to get it the right shape to make the least resistance." He began
to make some sketches when he got home, and at dinner he showed them to
his father and Mr. Sharp.  He said he had gotten an idea from looking
at the airship.

"I'm going to make the front part, or what corresponds to the
engine-hood in a gasolene car, pointed," he explained. "It will be just
like the front of the aluminum gas container of the airship, only built
of steel. In it will be a compartment for a set of batteries, and there
will be a searchlight there. From the top of some supporters in front
of the two rear seats, a slanting sheet of steel will come right down
to meet the sloping nose of the car. First I was going to have curtains
close over the top of the driver's seat, but I think a steel covering,
with a celluloid opening will be better and make less wind resistance.
I'll use leather side curtains when it rains. Under the front seats
will be a compartment for more batteries, and there will be a third
place under the rear seats, where I will also carry spare wheels and a
repair kit. The motors will be slung under the body of the car,
amidships, and there will also be room for some batteries there."

"How are you going to drive the car?" asked Mr. Sharp. "By a shaft?"

"Chain drive," explained Tom. "I can get more power that way, and it
will be more flexible under heavy loads. Of course it will be steered
in the usual way, and near the wheel will be the starting and reversing
levers, and the gear handle."

"Gears!" exclaimed the aged inventor. "Are you going to gear an
electric auto? I never heard of that. Usually the motor directly
connected is all they use."

"I'm going to have two gears on mine," decided Tom.

"That's a new idea," commented the aeronaut.

"It is," admitted the lad, "and that's why my car is going to be so
speedy. I'll make her go a hundred miles an hour, if necessary!"

"Nonsense!" exclaimed his father.

"I will!" cried the young inventor, enthusiastically. "You just wait
and see. I couldn't do it but for the gears, but by using them I'll
secure more speed, especially with the big reserve battery power I'll
have. I know I've got the right idea, and I'm going to get right to
work."

His father and Mr. Sharp were much interested, and closely examined his
sketches. In a few days Tom had made detailed drawings, and the aged
inventor looked at them critically. He had to admit that his son's
theory was right, though how it would work out in practice was yet to
be demonstrated. Mr. Swift offered some suggestions for minor changes,
as did Mr. Sharp, and the lad adopted some of them. Then, with Mr.
Jackson to help him, work was started on constructing the car.

Certain parts of it could be better purchased in the open market
instead of being manufactured in Mr. Swift's shop, and thus Tom was
able to get his new invention into some sort of shape sooner than would
otherwise have been the case. He also started making the batteries,
many of which would be needed.

Gradually the car began to take form on the floor of Tom's shop. It was
rather a curious looking affair, the sharp forward part making it
appear like some engine of war, or a projectile for some monster gun.
But Tom cared little for looks. Speed, strength and ease of control
were the chief features the lad aimed at, and he incorporated many new
ideas into his electric car.

He was busy in the shop, one morning, when, above the noise caused by
filing a piece of steel he heard some one exclaim:

"Bless my gizzard! If you aren't as busy as ever!"

"Mr. Damon!" cried Tom in delight. "When did you get back?"

"Last night," replied the eccentric man. "My wife and I stayed longer
than we meant to. And whom do you think we met when we were off on our
little trip?"

"Some of the Happy Harry gang?"

"Oh no. You'd never guess, so I'll tell you. It was Captain Weston."

"Indeed! And how has he been since he went in the submarine with us,
and helped recover the gold from the wreck?"

"Very well. The first thing he said to me was: 'How is Tom Swift and
his father, if I may be permitted to ask?'"

"Ha! Ha!" laughed the lad, at the recollection of the odd sea captain,
who generally tagged on an apologetic expression to most of his remarks.

"He was getting ready to take part in some South American revolution,"
went on Mr. Damon. "He used most of his money that he got from the
wreck to help finance their cause."

"I must tell Mr. Sharp," went on the lad. "He'll be interested."

"Anything new since I've been away?" asked the odd man. "Bless my shoe
laces, but I'm glad to get back!"

Tom told of the prospect of a new bank being started, and of Sam's
midnight visit, as well as the encounter with Mr. Foger and Andy.

"I went over to see what Mr. Foger wanted of you," went on the young
inventor, "but you weren't home. Did he call?"

"The servant said he had been there, not once, but several times,"
remarked Mr. Damon. "That reminds me. He left a note for me, and I
haven't read it yet. I'll do so now."

He tore open the letter, and hastily perused the contents.

"Ha!" he exclaimed. "So that's what he wanted to see me about!"

"What?" inquired Tom, with the privilege of an old friend.

"Mr. Foger says he's going to start a new bank, and he wants me to
withdraw my deposit from the old one, and put it in his institution.
Says he'll pay me bigger interest. And he adds that some of the old
employees have gone with him."

"I hope you're not going to change," spoke Tom, thinking of his chum,
Ned.

"Indeed I'm not. The old bank is good enough for me. By the way,
doesn't a friend of yours work there?"

"Yes, Ned Newton. I'm wondering how he'll be affected?"

"Don't you worry!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Bless my check book!  I'll
speak to Pendergast about your friend. Maybe there'll be a chance to
advance him further. I've got some mortgages falling due pretty soon,
and I'll deposit the money from them in the old bank. Then we'll see
what we can do about Ned."

"They'll make you a bank director, if you keep on putting in money,"
remarked our hero, with a smile.

"Not much they won't!" was the quick answer.

"Bless my stocks and bonds! I've got trouble enough without becoming a
bank director. My doctor says my liver is out of order again, and I've
got to eat a lemon every morning before breakfast."

"Eat a lemon?"

"Well, drink the juice! It's the same thing. But how is the electric
runabout coming on?"

"Pretty good."

"Have you entered it in the races yet?"

"No, but I've written for information. I have until September to finish
it. The races take place then."

"Let's see; they're on Long Island; aren't they? How do you calculate
to do; run from here to there?"

"No, Dad still has the cottage he rented when we built the submarine
and I think I'll make that my headquarters during the race. It's easy
to run from there over to the Long Island track.  They're building a
new one, especially for the occasion.

"Well, I hope you win the prize. I must go to town now, as I have to
attend to some business. I don't s'pose you want to come in my auto.
I'm pretty sure something will break before I get there, and I'd like
to have you along to fix it."

"Sorry, but I'm afraid I can't go," replied the lad. "I must get this
car done, and then I've got to start on the batteries."

Mr. Damon rather reluctantly went off alone, looking anxiously at his
car, for the machine got out of order on every trip he took.

It was a few days after this that Tom received a call from Ned one
evening. The bank employee's face wore a happy smile.

"What's the matter; some one left you a fortune?" asked Tom.

"Pretty nearly as good. I've got a better position."

"What? Have you left the old bank, and gone to the new one?"

"No, I'm still in the same bank, but I'm one of the two cashiers now.
Mr. Foger took several of the old employees when he opened his new
bank, and that left vacancies. I was promoted, and so were one or two
others. Mr. Damon spoke a good word for me."

"That's fine! He's a friend worth having."

"That's right. Your father also recommended me. But how are things with
you? Has Andy made any more trouble?"

"No, and I don't believe he will. I guess he'll steer clear of me."

But Tom was soon to learn he was mistaken.




CHAPTER VII

TOM IS CAPTURED


Meanwhile the young inventor, aided by his father, Mr. Sharp and Garret
Jackson, the engineer, worked hard over his new car, and the powerful
batteries. A month passed, and such was the progress made that Tom felt
justified in making formal entry of his vehicle for the races to be
held by the Touring Club of America.

He paid a contingent fee and was listed as one of the competitors. As
is usual in an affair of this kind, the promoters of it desired
publicity, and they sought it through the papers.

Consequently each new entrant's name was published. In addition
something was said about his previous achievements in the speed line.

No sooner was the name of Tom Swift received by the officials of the
club, than it was at once recalled that young Swift had had a prominent
part in the airship Red Cloud, and the submarine Advance. This gave an
enterprising reporter a chance for a "special" for the Sunday
supplement of a New York newspaper.

Tom, it was stated, was building a car which would practically
annihilate distance and time, and there were many weird pictures,
showing him flying along without touching the ground, in a car, the
pictorial construction of which was at once fearful and wonderful.

Tom and his friends laughed at the yarn, at first, but it soon had
undesirable results. The young inventor had desired to keep secret the
fact that he was building a new electric vehicle, and a novel storage
battery, but the article in the paper aroused considerable interest.
Many persons came a long distance, hoping for a sight of the wonderful
car, as pictured in the Sunday supplement, but they had to be denied.
The news, thus leaking out, kept the Swift shops almost constantly
besieged by many curious ones, who sought, by various means, to gain
admission.  Finally Tom and his father, after posting large signs,
warning persons to keep away, added others to the effect that
undesirable visitors might find themselves unexpectedly shocked by
electricity, if they ventured too close. This had the desired effect,
though the wires which were strung about carried such a mild charge
that it would not have harmed a child. Then the only bothersome
characters were the boys of the town, and, fearless and careless lads,
they persisted in hanging around the Swift homestead, in the hope of
seeing Tom dash away at the rate of five hundred miles an hour, which
one enthusiastic writer predicted he would do.

"I've got a plan!" exclaimed Tom one day when the boys had been
particularly troublesome.

"What is it?" asked his father.

"We'll hire Eradicate Sampson to stand guard with a bucket of
whitewash. He'll keep the boys away."

The plan was put into operation, and Eradicate and his mule, Boomerang,
were installed on the premises.

"Deed an' Ah'll keep dem lads away," promised the colored man.  "Ah'll
splash white stuff all ober 'em, if dey comes traipsin' around me."

He was as good as his word, and, when one or two lads had received a
dose of the stuff, which punishment was followed by more severe from
home, for having gotten their clothes soiled, the nuisance ceased, to a
certain extent. Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey were two who received a
liberal sprinkling of the lime, and they vowed vengeance on Tom.

"And Andy Foger will help us, too," added Sam, as he withdrew, after an
encounter with Eradicate.

"Doan't let dat worry yo', Mistah Swift!" exclaimed the darkey.  "Jest
let dat low-down-good-fo-nuffin' Andy Foger come 'round me, an' Ah'll
make him t'ink he's de inside ob a chicken coop, dat's what Ah will."

Perhaps Andy heard of this, and kept away. In the meanwhile Tom kept on
perfecting his car and battery. From the club secretary he learned that
a number of inventors were working on electric cars, and there promised
to be many of the speedy vehicles in the race.

After considerable labor Tom had succeeded in getting together one set
of the batteries. He had them completed one afternoon, and wanted to
give them a test that night. But, when he went to his father's chemical
laboratory for a certain powder, which he needed to use in the battery
solution, he found there was none.

"I'll have to ride in to Mansburg for some," he decided. "I'll go after
supper, on my motor-cycle, and test the battery to-night."

The young inventor left his house immediately after the evening meal.
Along the road toward Mansburg he speeded, and, as he came to the foot
of a hill, where once Andy Foger had put a big tree, hoping Tom would
run into it and be injured, the youth recalled that circumstance.

"Andy has been keeping out of my way lately," mused Tom. "I wonder if
he's up to any mischief? I don't like the way Sam Snedecker is hanging
around the shop, either. It looks as if they were plotting something.
But I guess Eradicate and his pail of whitewash will scare them off."

Tom got the powdered chemical he wanted in the drug store, and, after
refreshing himself with some ice cream soda, he started back. As he
rode along through the streets of the town he kept a lookout, and those
of you who know how fond the lad was of a certain young lady, do not
need to be told for whom he was looking. But he did not see her, and
soon turned into the main highway leading to Shopton.

It was dark when he reached the hill, where once he had been so near an
accident, and he slowed up as he coasted down it, using the brake at
intervals.

Tom got safely to the bottom of the declivity, and was about to turn on
the power of his machine, when, from the bushes that lined either side
of the roadway, several figures sprang suddenly. They ranged themselves
across the road, and one cried: "Halt!" in tones that were meant to be
stern, but which seemed to Tom, to tremble somewhat. The young inventor
was so surprised that he did not open the gasolene throttle, nor switch
on his spark. As a consequence his motor-cycle lost momentum, and he
had to take one foot from the pedal and touch the ground, to prevent
himself from toppling over.

"Hold on there!" cried another voice. "We've got you where we want you,
now! Hold on! Don't go!"

"I wasn't going to go," responded Tom calmly, trying to recognize the
voice, which seemed to be unnatural. "What do you want, and who are
you?"

"Never mind who we are. We want you and we've got you! Get off that
wheel!"

"I don't see why I should!" exclaimed Tom, and he suddenly shifted his
handle bars, so as to flash the bright headlight he carried, upon the
circle of dark figures that opposed his progress. As the light flashed
on them he was surprised to see that all the figures wore masks over
their faces.

Tom started. Was this the Happy Harry gang after him again? He hoped
not, yet the fact that the persons had on masks made the hold-up have
an ugly look. Once more Tom flashed the light on the throng. There were
exclamations of dismay.

"Douse that glim, somebody!" called a sharp voice, which Tom could not
recognize.

A stone came whizzing through the air, from some one in the crowd.
There was a smashing of glass as it hit the lantern, and the road was
plunged in darkness. Tom tried to throw one leg over the saddle, and
let down the supporting stand from the rear wheel, so the motor-cycle
would remain upright without him holding it. He determined to have
revenge for that act of vandalism in breaking his lamp.

But, just as he was free of the seat, he was surrounded by a dozen
persons, and several hands were laid on him.

"We've got you now!" some one fairly hissed in his ear. "Come along,
and get what's coming to you!"

Tom tried to fight, but he was overpowered by numbers and, a little
later, was dragged off into the woods in the darkness by the masked
figures. His arms were securely bound with ropes, and a handkerchief
was tied over his eyes. Tom Swift was a prisoner.




CHAPTER VIII

A BLINDING FLASH


Stumbling on through the dark woods, led by his captors, Tom tried to
pierce the gloom and identify the persons who had firm grips on either
side of him. But it was useless. A little light sifted down from the
starlit sky above, but it was not sufficient. The young inventor was
beginning to think, after all, that he had fallen into the hands of the
Happy Harry gang, and he knew that if this was so he need expect no
mercy.

But two things were against this belief. One was that the principal
members of the gang were still in jail, or at least they were supposed
to be, and another was that there were too many of the captors. Happy
Harry's crowd never numbered so many.

"Maybe they're highwaymen," thought our hero, as he was dragged along
"But that can't be," he reasoned further. "If they wanted to rob me
they'd have done it back there in the road, and not brought me off here
in the woods. Besides, I haven't anything for them to steal."

Suddenly Tom stumbled over a projecting root, and nearly fell, dragging
along with him the person who had hold of his left arm.

"Look out there! What's the matter with you?" exclaimed one of the
throng quickly, and at the sound of the voice Tom started.

"Andy Foger!" cried the young inventor, as he recovered himself, for he
had recognized the voice of the red-haired bully.  "What do you mean by
holding me up in this way?" he demanded.

"Quiet!" urged a voice in his ear, and the tones were unfamiliar.
"Mention no names!"

"I'm on to your game!" retorted Tom. "I know you're here, Andy, and Sam
and Pete; and Jack Reynolds and Sid Holton," and he named two rather
loose-charactered lads, who were often in the company of Andy and his
cronies. "You'd better quit this nonsense," Tom went on. "I'll cause
the arrest of all of you if you make trouble for me. I know who you are
now!"

"You think you do," answered the voice in his ear, and the young
inventor concluded that it must be some lad whom he did not know. "Nor
is this nonsense," the other went on. "You are about to receive the
punishment due you."

Our hero did not answer, but he was doing some hard thinking.  He
wondered why Andy and his crowd had captured him.

Suddenly the blackness of the woods was illuminated by the fitful gleam
of a distant fire. Tom could see more plainly now, and he managed to
count about ten dusky figures hurrying along, four being close to him,
to prevent his escape, and the others running on ahead. The light
became stronger, and, a moment later the prisoner and his captors
emerged into a little clearing, where a fire was burning. Two figures,
masked with black cloth, as were all in the crowd, stood about the
blaze, putting on sticks of wood.

"Did you get him?" asked one of these figures eagerly.

"Yes, they got me, Sam Snedecker," answered Tom quickly, recognizing
Sam's tones. "And they'll wish they hadn't before I'm done with them."

"Quiet!" ordered an unknown voice. "Members of the Deep Forest Throng,
the prisoner is here!" the lad went on.

"'Tis well, bind the captive to the sacrificial tree," was the response
from some one in the crowd.

Tom laughed. He was at ease now, for he recognized that those who had
taken him prisoner were all lads of Andy's character.  Most of them
were Shopton youths, but some, evidently, were strangers in town. Tom
felt he had little to fear.

"Bring him over here," ordered one, and Tom cried out:

"You wouldn't be giving those orders, Andy Foger, if my arms weren't
tied. And if you'll untie me, I'll fight any two of you at once,"
offered the young inventor fiercely, for he hated the humiliation to
which he was being subjected.

"Don't do it! Don't untie him!" begged some one.

"No danger, they won't. They're afraid to, Pete Bailey," replied Tom
quickly, for he had recognized the voice of the other one of Andy's
particular cronies.

"Aw, he knows who we are," whispered Sam, but not so low but that our
hero heard him.

"No matter," was Andy's retort. "Let's go ahead with it. Tie him to
that tree."

It was useless for Tom to struggle. He was bound too tightly by the
rope, and the crowd was too many for him. In a few minutes he was
securely fastened to a tree, not far from the camp-fire, which was
replenished from time to time.

"Now for the judgment!" called one of the masked lads, in what he meant
to be a sepulchral tone. "What is the charge against the prisoner?
Brother Number One of the Deep Forest Throng, what is your accusation?"

"He's a regular snob, that's what's the trouble,"  answered Andy
Foger,  though whether he was "Brother Number One," did not appear.
"He's too fresh and--and--"

"I'll make you wish you felt fresh when I get hold of you, Andy,"
murmured Tom.

"Quiet!" cried a tall lad. "What's the next charge?"

"He keeps an old colored man on guard at his place," was the answer,
and Tom had no difficulty in recognizing the voice of Sid Holton. "The
coon throws whitewash all over us. I got some of it."

"You wouldn't have, if you'd minded your own business," retorted Tom.
"It served you right!"

"What is the verdict on the prisoner?" asked one who seemed to be the
leader.

"I say let's tar and feather him!" cried Andy suddenly.  "There's a
barrel of tar back in the woods here, and we can get some feathers from
a chicken coop. That would make him so he wouldn't be so uppish, I
guess!"

"That's right! Tar and feathers!" exclaimed several.

Our hero's heart sank. He was not afraid, but he did not relish the
indignity that was proposed. He resolved to fight to the last ounce of
his strength against the masked lads.

"Can we get a kettle to heat the tar in?" asked some one.

"We'll find one," answered Sam Snedecker. "Come on, let's do it. You'll
look pretty, Tom Swift, when we're through with you," he exulted.

Tom did not answer, but there was fierce anger in his heart.  The tar
and feather proposal seemed to meet with general favor.

"Members of the Deep Forest Throng, we will hold a consultation,"
proposed the leader, in his assumed deep voice.  "Come over here, to
one side. Brother Number Six, guard the prisoner well."

"There ain't no need to," answered a lad who had been instructed to
mount guard over Tom. "He's tied so tight he can't move. I want to hear
what you say."

"Very well then," assented the leader,  "But look to his bonds."

The lad made a hasty examination of the ropes binding the young
inventor to the tree, and Tom was glad that the examination was a hasty
one. For he feared the guard might discover that one hand had been
worked nearly free. The young inventor had done this while he leered at
his captors.

Tom was not going to submit tamely to the nonsense, and from the moment
he had been tied, he had been trying to get loose. He had nearly
succeeded in freeing one hand when the crowd of masked boys moved off
to one side, where they presently began to talk in excited whispers.

"I wonder how they came to catch me," thought the prisoner, as he
worked feverishly to further loosen the ropes. "This looks as if it was
a put-up job, with the masks, and everything."  Later he learned that
the idea was the outcome of a proposal of one of the new arrivals in
town. He had organized the "Deep Forest Throng," as a sort of secret
society, and Andy and his cronies had been induced to join. It was
Andy's proposal to capture Tom, though, and, having seen him depart for
Mansburg on his motor-cycle, and knowing that he would return along a
road that ran near the woods where the Throng met, suggested that they
take Tom captive. The idea was enthusiastically received, and Andy and
his cronies thought they saw a chance to be revenged.

Tom, while he picked at the ropes, listened to what the boys were
saying. He heard frequent mention of tar and feathers, and began to
believe, that unless he could get free, while they were off there
consulting, he might be forced to submit to the humiliating ordeal.

He managed to get one hand comparatively free, so that he could move it
about, but then he struck several hard knots, and could make no further
progress. The conference seemed on the point of breaking up.

"One of you go for a big kettle to boil the tar in," ordered the
leader, "and the rest of you dig up some feathers."

"I must get loose!" thought Tom desperately. "If they try to tar and
feather me it will be a risky business. I've got to get loose! They may
burn me severely!"

But, though he tried with all his strength, the ropes would not loosen
another bit. He had one hand free, and that was all. The crowd was
moving back toward him.

"My knife!" thought the captive quickly. "If I can reach that in my
pocket I can cut the ropes! Once I get loose I'll fight the whole
crowd!"

He managed to get his free hand into his pocket. His fingers touched
something. It was not his knife, and, for a moment he felt a pang of
disappointment. Then, as he realized what it was that he had grasped, a
new idea came to him.

"This will be better than the knife!" he thought exultantly.  The crowd
of lads was now surrounding him, some distance from the fire, which
burned in front of the captive.

"Sentence has been passed upon you," remarked the leader.  "Prepare to
meet thy doom! Get the materials, brothers!"

"One moment!" called Tom, for he wanted the crowd all present to
witness what he was about to do. "I'll give you one chance to let me go
peaceably. If you don't--"

"Well, what will you do?" demanded Andy sneeringly, as he pulled his
mask further over his face. "I guess you won't do anything, Tom Swift."

"I'll give you one chance to let me go, and I'll agree to say nothing
about this joke," went on Tom. "If you don't I'll blow this place up!"

For a moment there was a silence.

"Ha! Ha! Ho! Ho!" laughed Sam Snedecker. "Listen to him! He'll blow the
place up! I'd like to see you do it! You can't get loose in the first
place, and you haven't anything to blow it up with in the second. I'd
like to see you do it; hey, fellers?"

"Sure," came the answering chorus.

"Would you?" asked Tom quickly. "Then watch. Stand back if you don't
want to get hurt, and remember that I gave you a chance to let me go!"

Tom made a rapid motion with the hand he had gotten loose. He threw
something toward the blazing fire, which was now burning well.
Something white sailed through the air, and fell amid the hot embers.

There was a moment's pause, and then a blinding flash of blue fire
lighted up the woods, and a dull rumble, as when gun-powder is lighted
in the open followed. A great cloud of white smoke arose, as the vivid
blue glare died away, and it seemed as if a great wind swept over the
place. Several of the masked lads were knocked down by the explosion,
and when the rumble died away, and deep blackness succeeded the intense
blue light, there came cries of pain and terror. The fire had been
scattered, and extinguished by the explosion which Tom, though still
bound to the tree had caused to happen in the midst of the Deep Forest
Throng. Then, as the smoke rolled away, Andy Foger cried:

"Come on, fellows! Something's happened. I guess a volcano blew up!"




CHAPTER IX

TOM IS RESCUED


The Deep Forest Throng needed no urging to flee from the place of the
mysterious explosion. Their prisoner, helpless as he had seemed, had
proved too much for them. Slipping and stumbling along in the darkness,
the masked lads had but one thought--to get away before they saw more
of that blue fire, and the force of the concussion.

"Gee! My eyebrows are all singed off!" cried Sam Snedecker, as he tore
loose his mask which had been rent in the explosion, and felt of his
face.

"And my hands are burned," added Pete Bailey. "I stood closer to the
fire than any of you."

"You did not! I got the worst of it!" cried Andy. "I was knocked down
by the explosion, and I'll bet I'm hurt somewhere. I guess--Oh! Help!
I'm falling in a mud hole!"

There was a splash, and the bully disappeared from the sight of his
companions who, now that the moon had risen, could better see to flee
from their prisoner.

"Help me out, somebody!" pleaded Andy. "I'm in a mud hole!"

They pulled him out, a sorry looking sight, and the red-haired lad,
whose locks were now black with muck, began to lament his lot.

"Dry up!" commanded Sid Holton. "It's all your fault, for proposing
such a fool trick as capturing Tom Swift. We might have known he would
get the best of us."

"What was that stuff he used, anyhow?" asked Cecil Hedden, the lad
responsible for the organization of the Deep Forest Throng.  "He must
be a wonder. Does he do sleight-of-hand tricks?"

"He does all sorts of tricks," replied Pete Bailey, feeling of a big
lump on his head, caused by falling on a stone in the mad rush. "I
guess we were chumps to tackle him. He must have put some kind of
chemical in the fire, to make it blow up."

"Or else he summoned his airship by wireless, and had that balloonist,
Mr. Sharp, drop a bomb in the blaze," suggested another lad.

"But how could he do anything? Wasn't he tied fast to that tree?" asked
Cecil, the leader.

"You never know when you've got Tom Swift tied," declared Jack
Reynolds. "You think you've got him, and you haven't. He's too slick
for us. It's Andy's fault, for proposing to capture him."

"That's right! Blame it all on me," whined the squint-eyed bully. "You
was just as anxious as I was to tar and feather him."

"Well, we didn't do it," commented Pete Bailey, dryly. "I s'pose he's
loose now, laughin' at us. Gee, but that was an explosion though! It's
a wonder some of us weren't killed! I guess I've had enough of this
Deep Forest Throng business. No more for mine."

"Aw, don't be afraid," urged Cecil. "The next time we get him we'll be
on our guard."

"You'll never catch Tom Swift again," predicted Pete.

"I'll go back now to where he is, if you will," agreed Cecil, who was
older than the others.

"Not much!" cried Pete. "I've had enough."

This seemed to be the sentiment of all. Away they stumbled through the
woods, and, emerging on the road, scattered to their several homes, not
one but who suffered from slight burns, contusions, torn and muddy
clothes or injured feelings as the outcome of the "joke" on the young
inventor.

But our hero was not yet free from the bonds of his enemies.  When they
scattered and ran, after the vivid blue light, and the dull explosion,
which, being unconfined, did no real damage, Tom was still fast to the
tree. As his eyes became accustomed to the semi-darkness that followed
the glare, he remarked:

"Well, I don't know that I'm much better off. I gave those fellows a
good scare, but I'm not loose. But I can work to better advantage now."

Once more he resumed the effort to free himself, but in spite of the
crude manner in which the knots had been made, the lad could not get
loose. The more he pulled and tugged the tighter they seemed to become.

"This is getting serious," Tom mused. "If I could only reach my knife I
could cut them, but it's in my pocket on the other side, and that
bond's fast. Guess I'll have to stay here all night.  Maybe I'd better
call for help, but--"

His words, spoken half aloud, were suddenly interrupted by a crash in
the underbrush. Somebody was approaching. At first Tom thought it was
Andy and his cronies coming back, but a voice that called a moment
later proved that this was not so.

"Is any one here?" shouted a man. "Any one hurt? What was that fire and
explosion?"

"I'm here," replied Tom. "I'm not hurt exactly, but I'm tied to a tree.
I'll be much obliged if you'll loosen me."

"Who are you?"

"Tom Swift. Is that you, Mr. Mason?"

"Yes. By jinks! I never expected to find you here, Tom. Over this way,
men," he added calling aloud. "I've found him; it's Tom Swift."

There was the flicker of several lanterns amid the trees, and soon a
number of men had joined Mr. Mason, and surrounded Tom.  They were
farmers living in the neighborhood.

"What in the name o' Tunket happened?" asked one. "Did you get hit by a
meteor or a comet? Who tied you up; highwaymen?"

"Cut him loose first, and ask questions afterward," suggested Mr. Mason.

"Yes," added Tom, with a laugh, "I wish you would. I'm beginning to
feel cramped."

With their knives, the farmers quickly cut the ropes, and some of them
rubbed the arms of the lad to restore the circulation.

"What was it--highwaymen?" asked a man, unable to longer restrain his
curiosity. "Did they rob you?"

"No, it wasn't highwaymen," replied the youth. "It was a trick of some
boys I know," and to Tom's credit be it said that he did not mention
their names. "They did it for a joke," he added.

"Boys' trick? Joke?" queried Mr. Mason. "Pretty queer sort of a joke, I
think. They ought to be arrested."

"Oh, I fancy I gave them what was coming to them," went on the young
inventor.

"Did they try to blow ye up, too?" asked Mr. Hertford. "What in th'
name of Tunket was that blue light, and that explosion? I heard it an'
saw it way over to my house."

"So did I," remarked Mr. Mason, and several others said the same thing.
"We thought a meteor had fallen," he continued, "and we got together to
make an investigation."

"It's a good thing for me you did," admitted Tom, "or I might have had
to stay here all night."

"But was it a meteor?" insisted Mr. Hertford.

"No," replied the lad, "I did it."

"You?"

"Yes. You see after they tied me I found I could get one hand free. I
reached in my pocket for my knife, but instead of it I managed to get
hold of a package of powder I had."

"Gunpowder?" asked Mr. Mason.

"No, a chemical powder I use in an electrical battery. The powder
explodes in fire, and makes quite a blue flash, and a lot of smoke, but
it isn't very dangerous, otherwise I wouldn't have used it. When the
boys were some distance away from the fire, I threw the powder in the
blaze. It went off in a moment, and--"

"I guess they run some; didn't they?" asked Mr. Mason with a laugh.

"They certainly did," agreed Tom.




CHAPTER X

TOM HAS A FALL


The young inventor told more details of his adventure in the woods,
but, though the farmers questioned him closely, he would not give a
single name of his assailants.

"But I should think you'd want to have them punished," remarked Mr.
Mason.

"I'll attend to that part later," answered Tom. "Besides, most of them
didn't know what they were doing. They were led on by one or two. No,
I'll fight my own battles. But I wish you'd lend me a lantern long
enough to find my motor-cycle. The moon doesn't give much light in the
woods, and those fellows may have hidden my machine."

Mr. Mason and his companions readily agreed to accompany Tom on a
search for his wheel. It was found just where he had dismounted from it
in the road. Andy and his cronies had evidently had enough of their
encounter with our hero, and did not dare to annoy him further.

"Do you think you can ride home?" asked one of the farmers of the lad,
when he had ascertained that his machine was in running order.

"Well, it's risky without my lantern," answered Tom. "They smashed that
for me. But I guess I can manage."

"No, you can't!" insisted Mr. Mason. "You're stiff from being tied up;
and you can't ride. Now you just wheel that contraption over to my
place, and I'll hitch up and take you home. It isn't far."

"Oh, I couldn't think of troubling you," declared Tom. At the same time
he felt that he was in no condition to ride.

"It's no trouble at all," insisted Mr. Mason. "I guess your father and
I are good enough friends to allow me to have my way.  You can come
over and get your choo-choo bicycle in the morning."

A little later Tom was being rapidly driven toward his home, where he
found his father and Mrs. Baggert, to say nothing of Mr. Sharp,
somewhat alarmed over his absence, as it was getting late.  The youth
told as much of his adventure as he thought would not alarm his father,
making a sort of joke of it, and, later, related all the details to the
balloonist.

"We'll have to get after Andy again," declared the aeronaut.  "He needs
another toning down."

"Yes, similar to the one he got when we nearly ran away with his
automobile, by catching the airship anchor on it," added Tom with a
laugh. "But I fancy Andy will steer clear of me for a while. I'm sorry
I had to use up that chemical powder, though.  Now I can't start my
battery until to-morrow." But the next day Tom made up for lost time,
by working from early until late. He went over to Mr. Mason's, got his
motor-cycle, procured some more of the chemical, and soon had his
storage battery in running order. Then he arranged for a more severe
test, and while that was going on he worked at completing the body of
the electric runabout. The vehicle was beginning to look like a car,
though it was not of the regulation pattern.

For the next week Tom was very busy, so occupied, in fact, that he
scarcely took time for his meals, which caused Mrs. Baggert no little
worriment, for she was a housekeeper who liked to see others enjoy her
cooking.

"Well, Tom, how are you coming on?" asked his father one night, as they
sat on the porch, Mr. Sharp with them.

"Pretty well, Dad," was the answer of the young inventor. "I'll put the
wheels on to-morrow, and then set the batteries. I've got the motor all
finished; and all I'll have to do will be to connect it up, and then
I'll be ready for a trial on the road."

"And you still think you'll beat all records?"

"I'm pretty sure of it, Dad. You see the amperage will be exceptionally
high, and my batteries will have a large amount of reserve, with little
internal resistance. But do you know I'm so tired I can hardly think.
It's more of a job than I thought it would be."

Tom, a little later, strolled down the road. As he turned back toward
the house and walked up the shrubbery lined path he heard a noise.

"Some one's hiding in there!" thought the lad, and he darted to an
opening in the hedge to reach the other side. As he did so he saw a
figure running away. Whether it was a man or a boy he could not tell in
the darkness.

"Hold on there!" cried the young inventor, but, naturally, the fleeing
one did not stop. Tom began to sprint, and as it was slightly down
hill, he made good time. The figure ahead of him was running well, too,
but Tom who could see better, now that he was out from under the trees,
noticed that he was gaining. The fleeing one came to a little brook,
and hesitated a moment before leaping across. This enabled Tom to catch
up, and he made a grab for the figure, just as the man or boy sprang
across the little stream.

Tom missed his grip, but he was not going to give up. He scarcely
slackened his speed, but, with the momentum he had acquired in racing
down the hill, he, too, leaped across the brook. As he landed on the
other side he made another grab for the figure, a man, as Tom could now
see, but he could make out no features, as the person's hat was pulled
down over his face.

"I've got you now!" cried Tom exultantly, reaching out his hand. His
fingers clutched something, but the next instant the young inventor
went sprawling. The other had put out his foot, and tripped him neatly
and, Tom throwing out his hands to save himself in the fall that was
inevitable, went splashing into the brook at full length. The unknown,
pausing a moment to view what he had done, turned quickly and raced off
in the darkness.




CHAPTER XI

CROSSED WIRES


More surprised than hurt, and with a feeling of chagrin and anger at
the trick which had been played on him, Tom managed to scramble out of
the brook. The water was not deep, but he had splashed in with such
force that he was wet all over. And, as he got up, the water dripping
from his clothes, the lad was conscious of a pain in his head. He put
up his hand, and found that contact with a stone had raised a large
lump on his forehead. It was as big as a hen's egg.

"Humph! I'll be a pretty sight to-morrow," murmured Tom. "I wonder who
that fellow was, anyhow, and what he wanted? He tripped me neatly
enough, whoever he was. I've a good notion to keep on after him."

Then, as he realized what a start the fleeing one had, the young
inventor knew that it would be fruitless to renew the chase. Slowly he
ascended the sloping bank, and started for home.  As he did so he
realized that he had, clasped in his fingers, something he had grabbed
from the person he was pursuing just before his unlucky tumble.

"It's part of his watch chain!" exclaimed Tom, as he felt of the
article. "I must have ripped it loose when I fell. Wonder what it is?
Evidently some sort of a charm. Maybe it will be a clue."  He tried to
discern of what style it was, but in the dark woods this was
impossible. Then the lad tried to strike a match, but those in his
pocket had become wet from his unexpected bath.  "I'll have to wait
until I get home," he went on, and he hastened his steps, for he was
anxious to see what he had torn loose from the person who appeared to
be spying on him.

"Why Tom, what's the matter?" exclaimed Mrs. Baggert, when he entered
the kitchen, dripping water at every step. "Is it raining outside? I
didn't hear any storm."

"It was raining where I was," replied Tom angrily. "I fell in the
brook. It was so hot I thought I'd cool off."

"With your best suit on!" ejaculated the housekeeper.

"It isn't my best," retorted the lad. "But I went in before I thought.
It was an accident; I fell," he added, lest Mrs. Baggert take his
joking remarks seriously. He did not want to tell her of the chase.

The chief concern of the lad now was to look at the charm and, as soon
as Mrs. Baggert's attention was attracted elsewhere, Tom glanced at the
object he still held tightly clenched in his hand.  As the light from
the kitchen fell upon it he could hardly repress an exclamation of
astonishment.

For the charm that he held in his hand was one he had seen before
dangling from the watch chain of Addison Berg, the agent for Bentley &
Eagert, submarine boat builders, which firm had, as told in "Tom Swift
and His Submarine," tried unsuccessfully to secure the gold treasure
from the sunken wreck. Berg and his associates had even gone so far as
to try to disable the Advance, the boat of Tom and his father, by
ramming her when deep down under the ocean, but Mr. Swift's use of an
electric cannon had broken the steering gear of the Wonder, the rival
craft, and from that time on Tom and his friends had a clear field to
search for the bullion held fast in the hold of the Boldero. "Addison
Berg," murmured Tom, as he looked at the watch charm. "What can he be
doing in this neighborhood? Hiding, too, as if he wanted to overhear
something. That's the way he did when we were building our submarine,
and now he's up to the same trick when I'm constructing my electric
car. I'm sure this charm is his. It is such a peculiar design that I'm
positive I can't be mistaken. I thought, when I was chasing after him,
that it would turn out to be Andy Foger, or some of the boys, but it
was too big for them.  Addison Berg, eh? What can he be doing around
here? I must not tell Dad, or he'd worry himself sick. But I must be on
my guard."

Tom examined the charm closely. It was a compass, but made in an odd
form, and was much ornamented.

The young inventor had noticed it on several occasions when he had been
in conversation with Mr. Berg previous to the attempt on the part of
the owners of the rival submarine to wreck Tom's boat. He felt that he
could not be mistaken in identifying the charm.

"Berg was afraid I'd catch him, and ask for an explanation that would
have been awkward to make," thought the lad, as he turned the charm
over in his hand. "That's why he tripped me up. But I'll get at the
bottom of this yet. Maybe he wants to steal my ideas for an electric
car."

Tom's musings were suddenly interrupted by Mrs. Baggert.

"I hope you're not going to stand there all night," she said, with a
laugh. "You're in the middle of a puddle now, but when you get over
dreaming I'd like to mop it up."

"All right," agreed the young inventor, coming to himself suddenly.
"Guess I'd better go get some dry clothes on."

"You'd better go to bed," advised Mrs. Baggert. "That's where your
father and Mr. Sharp are. It's late."

The more Tom thought over the strange occurrence the more it puzzled
him. He mused over the presence of Berg as he went about his work the
next day, for that it was the agent whom he had pursued he felt
positive.

"But I can't figure out why he was hanging around here," mused Tom.

Then, as he found that his thoughts over the matter were interfering
with his work, he resolutely put them from him, and threw himself
energetically into the labor of completing his electric car. The new
batteries, he found, were working well, and in the next two days he had
constructed several more, joining them so as to get the combined effect.

It was the afternoon of the third day from Tom's unexpected fall into
the brook that the young inventor decided on the first important test
of his new device. He was going to try the motor, running it with his
storage battery. Some of the connections were already in place, the
wires being fastened to the side of the shop, where they were attached
to switches. Tom did not go over these, taking it for granted that they
were all right. He soon had the motor, which he was to install in his
car, wired to the battery, and then he attached a gauge, to ascertain,
by comparison, how many miles he could hope to travel on one charging
of the storage battery.

"Guess I'll call Dad and Mr. Sharp in to see how it works, before I
turn on the current," he said to himself. He was about to summon his
parent and the aeronaut from an adjoining shop, where they were working
over a new form of dynamo, when the lad caught sight of the watch charm
he had left on his desk, in plain sight.

"Better put that away," he remarked. "Dad or Mr. Sharp might see it,
and ask questions. Then I'd have to explain, and I don't want to, not
until I get further toward the bottom of this thing."

He put the charm away, and then summoned his father and the balloonist.

"You're going to see a fine experiment," declared Tom. "I'm going to
turn on the full strength of my battery."

"Are you sure it's all right, Tom?" asked his father. "You can't be too
careful when you're dealing with electricity of high voltage, and great
ampere strength.

"Oh, it's all right, Dad," his son assured him "Now watch my motor hum."

He walked over to a big copper switch, and grasped the black rubber
handle to pull it over which would send the current from the storage
battery into the combination of wheels and gears that he hoped,
ultimately, would propel his electric automobile along the highways, or
on a track, at the rate of a hundred miles an hour.

"Here she goes!" cried Tom. For an instant he hesitated and then pulled
the switch. At the same time his hand rested on another wire, stretched
across a bench.

No sooner had the switch closed than there was a blinding flash, a
report as of a gun being fired, and Tom's body seemed to straighten
out. Then a blue flame appeared to encircle him and he dropped to the
floor of the shop, an inert mass.

"He's killed!" cried Mr. Swift, springing forward.

"Careful!" cautioned the balloonist. "He's been shocked! Don't touch
him until I turn off the current!"  As he pulled out the switch, the
aeronaut gave a glance at the apparatus.

"There's something wrong here!" he cried. "The wires have been crossed!
That's what shocked Tom, but he never made the wrong connections! He's
too good an electrician! There's been some one in this shop, changing
the wires!"




CHAPTER XII

THE TRY OUT


Once the current was cut off it was safe to approach the body of the
young inventor. Mr. Sharp stooped over and lifted Tom's form from the
floor, for Mr. Swift was too excited and trembled too much to be of any
service. Our hero was as one dead. His body was limp, after that first
rigid stretching out, as the current ran through him; his eyes were
closed, and his face was very pale.

"Is--is there any hope?" faltered Mr. Swift.

"I think so," replied the balloonist. "He is still breathing--faintly.
We must summon a doctor at once. Will you telephone for one, while I
carry him in the house?"

As Mr. Sharp emerged from the shop, bearing Tom's body, an automobile
drew up in front of the place.

"Bless my soul!" exclaimed a voice. "Tom's hurt! How did it happen?
Bless my very existence!"

"Oh, Mr. Damon, you're just in time!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp, "Tom's had a
bad shock. Will you go for a doctor in your auto?"

"Better than that! Let me take Tom in the car to Dr. Whiteside's
office," proposed the eccentric man. "It will be better that way."

"Yes, yes," agreed Mr. Swift eagerly. "Put Tom in the auto!"

"If only it doesn't break down," added Mr. Damon fervently.  "Bless my
spark plug, but it would be just my luck!"

But they started off all right, Mr. Swift riding in front with Mr.
Damon, and Mr. Sharp supporting Tom in the tonneau. Only a little
fluttering of the eyelids, and a slow, faint breathing told that Tom
Swift still lived.

Mr. Damon never guided a car better than he did his auto that day.
Several speed laws were broken, but no one appeared to stop them, and,
in record time they had the young inventor at the physician's house.
Fortunately Dr. Whiteside was at home, and, under his skillful
treatment Tom was soon out of danger. His heart action was properly
started, and then it was only a question of time. As the doctor had
plenty of room it was decided to let the lad remain that night, and Tom
was soon installed in a spare bedroom, with the doctor's pretty
daughter to wait on him occasionally.

"Oh, I'm all right," the youth insisted, when Miss Whiteside told him
it was time for his medicine. "I'm all right."

"You're not!" she declared. "I ought to know, for I'm going to be a
nurse, some day, and help papa. Now take this or I'll have to hold your
nose, as they do the baby's," and she held out a spoonful of unpleasant
looking mixture, extending her dainty forefinger and thumb of her other
hand, as if to administer dire punishment to Tom, if he did not obey.

"Well, I give in to superior strength," he said with a laugh, as he
noted, with approval, the laughing face of his nurse.

Then he fell into a deep sleep, and was so much better the next morning
that he could be taken home in Mr. Damon's auto.

"But mind, no hard work for three or four days," insisted the
physician. "I want your heart to get in shape for that big race you
were telling me about. The shock was a severe strain to it."

Tom promised, reluctantly, and, though he did no work, his first act,
on reaching home, was to go out to the shop, to inspect the battery and
motor. To his surprise the motor was running for the lad had
established the connection, in spite of his shock and his father and
Mr. Sharp had decided to let the machinery run until he came back.

"And look at the record it's made!" cried Tom delightedly as he glanced
at the gauge. "Better than I figured on. That battery is a wonder. I'll
have the fastest electric runabout you ever saw."

"If the wires don't get crossed again," put in Mr. Sharp.  "You'd
better make an examination, Tom," and, for the first time, the young
inventor learned how he had been shocked.

"Crossed wires! I should say they were crossed!" he exclaimed as he
looked at the switches and copper conductors. "Somebody has been
tampering with them. No wonder I was shocked!"

"Who did it?" asked Mr. Sharp.

Tom considered for a moment, before answering. Then he said:

"I believe it was Addison Berg. He must have wanted to do some damage,
to get even with us for getting that treasure away from him."

"Berg?" questioned the balloonist, and Tom told of the night he had
been tripped into the brook, and exhibited the watch charm he had
secured. Mr. Sharp recognized it at once. A further examination
confirmed the belief that the submarine agent had sneaked into Tom's
workshop, and had altered the wires.

"They were all right when I came out of the shop that night," declared
Tom. "I left the old connections just as I thought I had arranged them,
and only added the new ones, when I went to try my battery. The old
connections were crossed, but I didn't notice it. Then when I turned on
the current I got the shock. I don't s'pose Berg thought I'd be so
nearly killed. Probably he wanted to burn out my motor, and spoil it.
If it was Andy Foger I could understand it, but a man like Berg--"

"He's probably wild with anger because his submarine got the worst of
it in the race for the gold," interrupted the balloonist. "Well, we'll
have to be on our guard, that's all.  What was the matter with
Eradicate, that he didn't see him enter the shop?"

"Rad went to a colored dance that night," said Tom. "I let him off. But
after this I'll have the shop guarded night and day. My motor might
have been ruined, if that first charge hadn't gone through my body
instead of into the machinery."  The improper connections were soon
removed and others substituted.

It was agreed between Tom and Mr. Sharp that they would say nothing
regarding Mr. Berg to Mr. Swift. The aeronaut caused cautious inquiries
to be made, and learned that the agent had been discharged by the
submarine firm, because of some wrong-doing in connection with the
craft Wonder, and it was surmised that the agent believed Tom to be at
the bottom of his troubles.

In a few days the young inventor was himself again, and as further
trials of his battery showed it to be even better than its owner hoped,
arrangements were made for testing it in the car on the road.

The runabout was nearly finished, but it lacked a coat of varnish, and
some minor details, when Tom, assisted by his father, Mr. Sharp and Mr.
Jackson, one morning, about a week later, installed the motor and
battery units. It did not take long to gear up the machinery, connect
the battery and, though the car was rather a crude looking affair, Tom
decided to give it a tryout.

"Want to come along, Dad?" he asked, as he tightened up some binding
posts, and looked to see that the steering wheel, starting and reverse
levers worked properly, and that the side chains were well lubricated.

"Not the first time," replied his father. "Let's see how it runs with
you, first."

"Oh, I want some sort of a load in it," went on the lad. "It won't be a
good test unless I have a couple of others besides myself. How about
you, Mr. Damon?" for the old gentleman was spending a few days at the
Swift homestead.

"Bless my shoe buttons! I'll come!" was the ready answer.  "After the
experience I've been through in the airship and submarine, nothing can
scare me. Lead on, I'll follow!"

"I don't suppose you'll hang back after that; will you, Mr. Sharp?"
asked the lad, with a laugh.

"I don't dare to, for the sake of my reputation," was the reply, for
the balloonist who had made many ascensions, and dropped thousands of
feet in parachutes, was naturally a brave man.

So he and Mr. Damon climbed into the rear seats of the odd-looking
electric car, while Tom took his place at the steering wheel.

"Are you all ready?" he asked.

"Let her go!" fired back Mr. Sharp.

"Bless my galvanometer, don't go too fast on the start," cautioned Mr.
Damon, nervously.

"I'll not," agreed the young inventor. "I want to get it warmed up
before I try any speeding."

He turned on the current. There was a low, humming purr, which
gradually increased to a whine, and the car moved slowly forward.  It
rolled along the gravel driveway to the road, Tom listening to every
sound of the machinery, as a mother listens to the breathing of a child.

"She's moving!" he cried.

"But not much faster than a wheelbarrow," said his father, who
sometimes teased his son.

"Wait!" cried the youth.

Tom turned more current into the motor. The purring and humming
increased, and the car seemed to leap forward. It was in the road now,
and, once assured that the steering apparatus was working well, Tom
suddenly turned on much more speed.

So quickly did the electric auto shoot forward that Mr. Damon and Mr.
Sharp were jerked back against the cushions of the rear seats.

"Here! What are you doing?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"I'm going to show you a little speed," answered Tom.

The car was now moving rapidly, and there was a smoothness and
lightness to its progress that was absent from a gasolene auto.  There
was no vibration from the motor. Faster and faster it ran, until it was
moving at a speed scarcely less than that of Mr. Damon's car, when it
was doing its best. Of course that was not saying much, for the car
owned by the odd gentleman was not a very powerful one, but it could
make fast time occasionally.

"Is this the best you can do?" asked Mr. Damon. "Not that it isn't
fast," he hastened to add, "and I was wondering if it was your limit."

"Not half!" cried Tom, as he turned on a little more power.  "I'm not
trying for a record to-day. I just want to see how the battery and
motor behaves."

"Pretty well, I should say," commented Mr. Sharp.

"I'm satisfied--so far," agreed the lad.

They were now moving along the highway at a good speed--moving almost
silently, too, for the motor, save for a low hum, made no noise. So
quiet was the car, in fact, that it was nearly the cause of a disaster.
Tom was so interested in the performance of his latest invention, that,
before he knew it, he had come up behind a farmer, driving a team of
skittish horses. As the big machine went past them, giving no warning
of its approach, the steeds reared up, and would have bolted, but for
the prompt action of the driver.

"Hey!" he cried, angrily, as Tom speeded past, "don't you know you got
to give warnin' when you're comin' with one of them ther gol-swizzled
things! By Jehossephat I'll have th' law on ye ef ye do thet ag'in!"

"I forgot to ring the bell," apologized Tom, as he sent out a peal from
the gong, and then, he let out a few more amperes, and the speed
increased.

"Hold on! I guess this is fast enough!" cried Mr. Damon, as his hat
blew off.

"Fast?" answered Tom. "This is nothing to what I'll do when I use the
full power. Then I'll--"

He was interrupted by a sharp report, and a vivid flash of fire on a
switch board near the steering wheel. The motor gave a sort of groan,
and stopped, the car rolling on a little way, and then becoming
stationary.

"Bless my collar button!" ejaculated Mr. Damon.

"What's the matter?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"Some sort of a blow-out," answered Tom ruefully, as he shoved the
starting handle over, trying to move the car. But it would not budge.
The new auto had "gone dead" on her first tryout. The young inventor
was grievously disappointed.




CHAPTER XIII

TOWED BY A MULE


"Bless my gizzard! Is it anything serious?" asked Mr. Damon.  "Will it
blow up, or anything like that?"

"No," replied the lad, as he leaped out of the car, and began to make
an examination. Mr. Sharp assisted him.

"The motor seems to be all right," remarked the balloonist, as he
inspected it.

"Yes," agreed our hero, "and the batteries have plenty of power left in
them yet. The gauge shows that. I can't understand what the trouble can
be, unless--" He paused in his remark and uttered an exclamation. "I've
found it!" he cried.

"What?" demanded the aeronaut.

"Some of the fuses blew out. I turned on too much current, and the
fuses wouldn't carry it. I put them in to save the motor from being
burned out, but I didn't use heavy enough ones. I see where my mistake
was."

"But what does it mean?" inquired Mr. Damon.

"It means that we've got to walk back home," was Tom's sorrowful
answer. "The car is stalled, for I haven't any extra fuses with me."

"Can't you connect up the battery by using some extra wire?" asked Mr.
Sharp. "I have some," and he drew a coil of it from his pocket.

"I wouldn't dare to. It might be so heavy that it would carry more
current than the motor could stand. I don't want to burn that out. No,
I guess we'll have to walk home, or rather I will.  You two can stay
here until I come back with heavier fuses. I'm sorry."

Tom had hardly ceased speaking, when, from around the turn in the road
proceeded a voice, and, at the sound of it all three started, for the
voice was saying:

"Now it ain't no use fer yo' to act dat-a-way, Boomerang. Yo' all ain't
got no call t' git contrary now, jest when I wants t' git home t' mah
dinner. I should t'ink you'd want t' git t' de stable, too. But ef yo'
all ain't mighty keerful I'll cut down yo' rations, dat's what I'se
goin' to do. G'lang, now, dat's a good feller. Ho! Ho! I knowed dat'd
fetch yo' all. When yo' all wiggles yo' ears dat-a-way, dat's a suah
sign yo' all is gwine t' move."

Then followed the sound of a rattletrap of a wagon approaching.

"Eradicate! It's Eradicate!" exclaimed Tom.

"And his mule, Boomerang!" added Mr. Sharp. "He's just in time!"
commented Mr. Damon with a sigh of relief, as the ancient outfit, in
charge of the aged colored man, came along. Eradicate had been sent to
Shopton to get a load of wood for Mr. Swift, and was now returning. At
the sight of the stalled auto the mule pricked up his long ears, and
threw them forward.

"Whoa dar, now, Boomerang!" cried Eradicate. "Doan't yo' all commence
t' gittin' skittish. Dat machine ain't gwine t' hurt yo'. Why good
land a' massy! Ef 'tain't Mistah Swift!" cried the colored man, as he
caught sight of Tom. "What's de trouble?" he asked.

"Broke down," answered the young inventor briefly. "You always seem to
come along when I'm in trouble, Rad."

"Dat's right," assented the darkey, with a grin. "Me an' trouble am ole
acquaintances. Sometimes she hits me a clip on de haid, den, ag'in
Boomerang, mah mule, gits it. He jest had his trouble. Got a stone
under his shoe, an' didn't want t' move. Den when I did git him started
he balked on me. But I'se all right now. But I suah am sorry fo' you.
Can't I help yo' all, Mistah Swift?"

"Yes, you can, Rad," answered Tom. "Drive home as fast as you can, and
ask Dad to send back with you some of those fuses he'll find on my work
bench. He knows what I want. Hurry there and hurry back."

Eradicate shook his head doubtfully.

"What's the matter? Don't you want to go?" asked Mr. Sharp, a trifle
nettled. "We can't get the car started until we have some new fuses."

"Oh, I wants t' go all right 'nuff, Mistah Sharp," was Eradicate's
prompt answer. "Yo' all knows I'd do anyt'ing t' 'blige yo' or Mistah
Swift. But hits dish yeah mule, Boomerang. I jest done promised him dat
we were gwine home t' dinnah, an' he 'spects a manger full ob oats. Ef
I got to Mistah Swift's house wid him, I couldn't no mo' git him t'
come back widout his dinnah, dan yo' all kin git dat 'ar car t' move
widout dem fusin' t'ings yo' all talked about."

"Bless my necktie!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "That's all nonsense!  You
don't suppose that mule understands what you say to him, do you? How
does he know you promised him his dinner?"

"I doan't know how he know, Mistah Damon," replied Eradicate, "but he
do know, jest de same. I know hit would be laik pullin' teeth an' wuss
too, t' git Boomerang t' start back wid dem foosd t'ings until after
he's had his dinner. Wouldn't it, Boomerang?"

The mule waved his long ears as if in answer.

"Bless my soul, I believe he does understand!" cried Mr. Damon.

"Of course he do," put in the colored man. "I'se awful sorry.  Now if
it were afternoon I could bring back dem what-d'ye-call-'ems in a
jiffy, 'cause Boomerang allers feels good arter he has his dinnah, but
befo' dat--" and Eradicate shook his head, as if there was no more to
be said on the subject.

"Well," remarked Tom, sadly, "I guess there's no help for it.  We'll
have to walk home, unless you two want to wait until I can ride back
with Eradicate, and come back on my motor cycle. Then I'll have to
leave the cycle here, for I can't get it in the car."

"Bless my collar button!" cried Mr. Damon. "It's like the puzzle of the
fox, the goose and the bag of corn on the banks of a stream. I guess
we'd better all walk."

"Hold on!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp. "Is your mule good and strong,
Eradicate?"

"Strong? Why dish yeah mule could pull a house ober--dat is when he's
got a mind to. An' he'd do most anyt'ing now, 'ca'se he's anxious t'
git home t' his dinnah; ain't yo' all, Boomerang?"

Once more the mule waved his ears, like signal flags.

"Then I have a proposition to make," went on the balloonist.  "Unhitch
the mule from the load of wood, and hitch him to the auto. We've got
some rope along, I noticed. Then the mule can pull us and the runabout
home."

"Good idea!" cried Mr. Damon.

"Dat's de racket!" ejaculated Eradicate. "I'll jest sequesterate dish
year load ob wood side ob de road, an' hitch Boomerang to de auto."

Tom said nothing for a few seconds.  He gazed sadly at his auto, which
he hoped would win the touring club's prize. It was a bitter pill for
him to swallow.

"Towed by a mule!" he exclaimed, shaking his head, and smiling
ruefully. "The fastest car in this country towed by a mule! It's tough
luck!"

"'Tain't half so bad as goin' widout yo' dinnah, Mistah Swift!"
remarked Eradicate, as he began to harness the mule to the electric
runabout.

Boomerang made no objection to the transfer. He looked around once or
twice as he was being made fast to the auto and, when the word was
given he stepped out as if pulling home stalled cars was his regular
business. Tom sat beside Eradicate on the front seat, and steered,
while the colored man drove the mule, and Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon were
in the "tonneau" seats as Tom called them.

"I hope no one sees us," thought Tom, but he was doomed to
disappointment. When nearly home he heard an auto approaching, and in
it were Andy Foger, Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey. The three cronies
stared at the odd sight of Boomerang ambling along, with his great ears
flapping, drawing Tom's speedy new car.

"Ha! Ha!" laughed Andy. "So that's the motive power he's going to use!
Look at him, fellows. I thought his new electric, that was going to
beat my car, and win the prize, was to be two hundred horse power.
Instead it's one mule power! That's rich!" and Andy's chums joined in
the laugh at poor Tom.

The young inventor said nothing, for there was nothing he could say. In
dignified silence he passed the car containing his enemies, they,
meanwhile, jeering at him.

"Dat's all right," spoke Eradicate, sympathizing with his young
employer. "Maybe dey'll 'want a tow derselves some day, an' when dey
does, I'll make Boomerang pull 'em in a ditch."

But this was small comfort to Tom. He made up his mind, though, that he
would demonstrate that his car could do all that he had claimed for it,
and that very soon.




CHAPTER XIV

A GREAT RUN


Boomerang did not belie the reputation Eradicate had given him as a
beast of strength. Though the electric runabout was heavy, the mule
managed to move it along the road at a fair speed, with the four
occupants. Perhaps the animal knew that at the end of his journey a
good feed awaited him. At any rate they were soon within sight of the
Swift home.

Mr. Damon and Mr. Sharp refrained from making any comments that might
hurt Tom's feelings, for they realized the chagrin felt by the young
inventor in having his apparatus go back on him at the first trial. But
our hero was not the kind of a lad who is disheartened by one failure,
or even half a dozen.

The humor of the situation appealed to him, and, as he turned the auto
into the driveway, and noticed Boomerang's long ears waving to and fro,
he laughed.

The lad insisted on putting new fuses in the car before he ate his
dinner, and then, satisfied that the motor was once more in running
order, he partook of a hasty meal, and began making several changes
which he had decided were desirable. He finished them in time to go for
a little run in the car all alone on a secluded road late that
afternoon.

Tom returned, with eyes shining, and cheeks flushed with elation.

"Well, how did it go? asked his father.

"Fine! Better than I expected," responded his son enthusiastically.
"When it gets to running smoothly I'll pass anything on the road."

"Don't be too sure," cautioned Mr. Swift, but Tom only smiled.

There was still much to do on the electric runabout, and Tom spent the
next few days in adjusting the light steel wind-shield, that was to
come down over the driver's seat. He also put in a powerful electric
search-light, which was run by current from the battery, and installed
a new speedometer and an instrument to tell how much current he was
using, and how much longer the battery would run without being
exhausted. This was to enable him to know when to begin recharging it.
When the current was all consumed it was necessary to store more in the
battery. This could be done by attaching wires from a dynamo, or, in an
emergency by tapping an electric light wire in the street. But as the
battery would enable the car to run many miles on one charging, Tom did
not think he would ever have to resort to the emergency charging
apparatus. He had a new system for this, one that enabled him to do the
work in much less than the usual time.

With his new car still unpainted, and rather rough and crude in
appearance, the lad started out alone one morning, his father and Mr.
Sharp having declined to accompany him, on the plea of business to
attend to, and Mr. Damon not being at the Swift house.

Tom rode about for several hours, giving his car several severe tests
in the way of going up hills, and speeding on the level. He was
proceeding along a quiet country road, in a small town about fifteen
miles from Shopton, when, as he flashed past the small railroad
station, he saw a familiar figure standing on the platform.

"Why, Ned!" called Tom, "what are you doing over here?"

"I might ask the same thing of you. Is that your new car? It doesn't
look very new."

"Yes, this is it. I haven't had a chance to paint and varnish it yet.
But you ought to see it go. What are doing here, though?"

"I came over on some bank business. A customer here had some bonds he
wanted to dispose of and I came for them. You see we're enlarging our
business since the new bank started."

"Has it hurt your bank any?"

"Not yet, but Foger and his associates are trying hard to make us lose
money. Say, did you ever see such a place as this? I've got to wait two
hours for a train back to Shopton."

"No you haven't."

"Why not? Have they changed the timetable since I came over this
morning?"

"No, but you can ride back with me.  I'm going, and I'll show you what
my new electric car can do."

"Good!" cried the young bank cashier. "You're just in time. I was
wondering how I could kill two hours, but now I'll get in your new car
and--"

"And maybe we'll kill a few chickens, or a dog or two when we get her
speeded up," put in Tom, with a laugh in which Ned joined.

The two lads, seated in the front part of the auto, were soon moving
down the hard highway. Suddenly Tom pulled a lever and the steel
wind-shield came sliding down from the top case, meeting the forward
battery compartment, and forming a sort of slanting roof over the heads
of the two occupants.

"Here! What's this?" cried Ned.

"We're going to hit it up in a few minutes," replied the young
inventor, "and I want to reduce the wind resistance."

"Oh, I thought maybe we were going through a bombardment. It's all
right, go ahead, don't mind me. I'm game."

There was a celluloid window in the steel wind-shield, and through this
the lads could observe the road ahead of them.

As they swung along it, the speed increasing, Ned saw an auto ahead of
them.

"Whose car is that?" he asked.

"Don't know," replied Tom. "We'll be up to it in about half a minute,
though."

As the electric runabout, more dilapidated looking than ever from the
layer of dust that covered it, passed the other auto, which was a
powerful car, the solitary occupant of it, a middle-aged man, looked to
one side, and, seeing the queer machine, remarked:

"You fellows are going the wrong way to the junk heap. Turn around."

"Is that so?" asked Tom, his eyes flashing at the cheap wit of the man.
"Why we came out here to show you the way!"

"Do you want to race?" asked the man eagerly, too eagerly, Ned thought.
"I'll give you a brush, if you do, and a handicap into the bargain."

"We don't need it," replied the young inventor quickly.

"I'll wager fifty dollars I can beat you bad on this three-mile
stretch," went on the autoist. "How about it?"

"I'll race you, but I don't bet," answered Tom, a bit stiffly.

"Oh, be a sport," urged the man.

Tom shook his head. He had slowed down his machine, and was running
even with the gasolene car now. He noticed that it was a new one, of
six cylinders, and looked speedy. Perhaps he was foolish to pit his
untried car against it. Yet he had confidence in his battery and motor.

"Well, we'll race for the fun of it then," went on the man. "Do you
want a handicap?"

Tom shook his head again, and there came around his mouth a grim look.

"All right," assented the other. "Only you're going to be beat badly. I
never saw an electric car yet that could do anything except to crawl
along."

"You're going to see one now," was all the retort Tom permitted himself.

"Here we go then!" cried the man, and he gave his gear handle a yank,
and shoved over the sparking and gasolene levers.

His car instantly shot ahead, and went "chug chugging" down the road in
a cloud of dust. At the same moment Tom, in answer to a look from Ned,
who feared his friend was going to be left behind, turned more power
into the motor. The humming, purring sound increased and the electric
car forged ahead.

"Can you catch him?" asked Ned.

"Watch," was all Tom said.

The hum of the motor became a sort of whine, and the electric rapidly
acquired speed. It crept up on the gasolene car, as an express train
overtakes a freight, and the man, looking back, and expecting to see
his rival far behind was surprised to note the queer looking vehicle
lapping his rear wheels.

"Well, you are coming on, aren't you?" he asked. "Maybe you'll keep up
now!" He shifted the gears, using a little more gasolene.  For a moment
his car opened a wide gap between it and Tom's, but the young inventor
had only begun to race. Still louder purred the motor, and in a few
minutes Tom was running on even terms with his competitor. The man
looked annoyed, and tried, by the skilful use of gasolene and sparking
levers, to leave Tom behind.  But the electric held her own.

"I've got to go the limit I see," remarked the man at last, glancing
sideways at the other car. "I'll tell 'em you're coming," he added,
"though I must say your electric does better than any of its kind I
ever came across."

"I'm not done yet," was the comment of our hero. But the man did not
hear him, for he was yanking into place the lever that enabled him to
run on direct drive for fourth speed.

Forward shot his car, and, for perhaps a quarter of a mile it led. The
racers were almost at the end of the three-mile level stretch of road,
and if Tom was going to win the impromptu contest it seemed high time
he began.

"Can you catch him?" asked Ned anxiously.

"Watch," was his chum's reply. "I haven't used my high speed gear yet.
I'm afraid the fuses won't stand it, but here goes for a try, anyhow."

He threw over a switch, changed a lever and then, having pushed into
place the last gear, he grasped the steering wheel more firmly.

There was need of it, for, in an instant, the electric runabout, with
the motors fairly roaring, swept up the road, after the gasolene car
that was almost hidden from sight in a cloud of dust. Faster and faster
went Tom's car. The young inventor was listening with critical ear to
the song of the machinery. He wanted to learn if it was running sweet
and true, for that is how a careful mechanic tests his apparatus. Foot
by foot the distance between the two cars lessened. Now the electric
was lapping the rear wheels of the gasolene machine, but the driver did
not know it. His whole attention was on the road ahead of him.

"Half a mile more!" cried Ned, naming the distance which yet remained
of the straight stretch. "Can you do it, Tom?"

His chum nodded. He shoved the controller handle over to the last
notch, and then waited an anxious second. Would the fuse carry the
extra load? It seemed so, for there was a slight increase of power.

An instant later Tom gave a sudden twist to the steering wheel.  It was
well that he did, for he was passing the gasolene car dangerously
close. Then he was ahead of it, and in a second he was three lengths in
advance.

Desperately the man opened his muffler, and sought to gain by this
advantage, but though his car gave off explosions like a battery of
guns in action, he could not gain on Tom. The electric shot around a
curve in the road, winner of the impromptu race by an eighth of a mile.

"Well," asked Tom of his chum, as he slowed down, for the road now was
not so good, "did I do it?"

"You certainly did. Whew! But we did scoot along?"

"Eighty miles an hour there one spell," went on the young inventor,
glancing at a gauge. "But I've got to do better than that to win the
big race."




CHAPTER XV

ANDY FOGER'S BLACK EYE


Around the bend came the six-cylinder touring car. The driver, with a
surprised look on his face, was slacking up. He ran his machine up
alongside of Tom's.

"Say," he asked, in dazed tones, "did you take a short cut, or anything
like that to get ahead of me?"

"No," answered the youth.

"And you didn't jump me in the air?"

"No," was Tom's answer, smilingly given.

"Well, all I've got to say is that you've got a wonderful car there,
Mr.--er--er--"  He paused suggestively.

"Swift is my name," our hero answered. "Thomas Swift, of Shopton."

"Ah, I've heard of you. My name is Layton--Paul Layton. I'm from
Netherton. Let's see, you built an airship, didn't you?"

"I helped," Tom admitted modestly.

"Well, you beat me fair and square, and if I do say it myself I've got
a fairly speedy car. Took two firsts at the Indianapolis meet last
month. But you certainly scooted ahead of me. Where did you buy that
electric, if I may ask?"

"I made it."

"I might have known," admitted the man. "But are you going to put them
on the market? If you are I'd like to get one. I want the fastest car
going, and you seem to have it."

"I hadn't thought of manufacturing them for sale," said the young
inventor. "If I do, I'll let you know."

"I wish you would. My! I had no idea you could beat me, but you
did--fair and square."

There was some more talk, and then Mr. Layton started on, after
exacting from Tom a further promise to let him know if any electrics
were to be made for sale.

"You certainly have a wonderful car," complimented Ned, as he and his
chum took a short cut to Shopton.

"Well, I'm not quite satisfied with it," declared Tom.

"Why not?"

"Well, I've set a hundred miles an hour as my limit. I didn't make but
eighty to-day. I've got to have more speed if I go up against the crowd
that will race for the touring club's prize."

"Can you make a hundred miles?"

"I think so. I've got to change my gears, though, and use heavier
fuses. I was afraid every second that one of the fuses would melt, and
leave me stranded. But they stood pretty well. Of course, when the car,
geared as it is now, has been run a little longer it will go faster,
but it won't come up to a hundred miles an hour. That's what I want,
and that's what I'm going to get," and the lad looked very determined.

Ned was taken to the bank, and, as Tom turned his machine around, to go
home, he saw, standing on the steps of the new bank, which was almost
across the street from the old one, Andy Foger, and the bully's father.
The red-haired lad laughed at Tom's rough looking car, and said
something to his parent, but Mr. Foger did not notice Tom. Not that
this caused our hero any uneasiness, however.

But, as he swung away from the bank, he saw, coming up the street a
figure that instantly attracted his attention. It was that of Mr. Berg,
and Tom at once recalled the night he had pursued the submarine agent,
and torn loose his watch charm. Mr. Berg was evidently going to enter
the new bank, for, at the sight of the former agent, Mr. Foger
descended the steps, and went to meet him.

Tom, however, had decided upon a plan of action. He steered his machine
in toward the curb, ran up the steel wind-shield, and called:

"Mr. Berg!"

"Eh? What's that?" asked the agent, in some surprise. Then, as he
caught sight of Tom, and recognized him, he added: "I'm very busy now,
my young friend. You'll have to excuse me."

"I won't detain you a moment," went on Tom, casually. "I have something
of yours that I wish to return to you."

"Something of mine?" Mr. Berg was evidently puzzled. He approached the
electric car, in spite of the fact that Mr. Foger was calling him.
"Something of mine? What is it?"

"This!" exclaimed Tom suddenly, extending the compass watch charm,
which he always carried with him of late.

"That! Where did you get that. I lost it--"

Mr. Berg paused in some confusion.

"I grabbed it off your watch chain the night you were hiding in our
shrubbery, and tripped me into the brook," answered the lad, looking
the man squarely in the eye.

"Hiding? Tripped you? Grabbed that off my chain--" stammered Mr. Berg.
He had taken the charm up in his fingers, but now he quickly dropped it
back into Tom's hand. "I guess you're mistaken," he added quickly.
"That's not mine. I never had one--I--er--that's not mine--at
least--Oh, you'll have to excuse me, young man, I'm in a hurry, and I
have an important engagement!" and with that Mr. Berg wheeled off, and
joined Mr. Foger, who stood on the sidewalk, waiting for him.

"I thought sure it was yours," said Tom, easily. "Perhaps Mr. Foger
will keep it in one of the safety-deposit boxes of his bank, until the
owner claims it," and he looked at the banker.

"What's that?" asked Andy's father.

"This watch charm which I grabbed off Mr. Berg's chain the night he was
sneaking around our house, and crossed the electric wires," went on the
lad.

"Don't listen to him. He doesn't know what he is saying!" exclaimed the
former submarine boat agent. "It's not my charm.  He's crazy!"

"Oh, am I?" thought Tom, with a grim look on his face. "Well, we'll see
about that, Mr. Berg," and, putting the charm back in his pocket, Tom
swung his machine toward home, while the agent and the banker entered
the new institution.

"So they're getting chummy," mused Tom. "Andy and Berg were friends
when Andy shut me up in the submarine tank, and now Berg comes here to
do business, and Foger and his associates are trying to put the old
bank out of business. I wonder if there's any connection there? I must
keep my eyes open. Berg is an unscrupulous man, and so is Andy's
father, to say nothing of the red-haired bully himself. He had nerve to
deny that was his charm. Well, maybe I'll catch him some day."

Tom spent a busy week making new adjustments to his electric car,
changing the gear and providing for heavier fuses. He was planning for
another trip on the road, as the time for the great race was drawing
near, and he wanted the mechanism to be in perfect shape.

One evening, as he was preparing for a short night trip to Mansburg,
where he had promised to call for Miss Nestor, Tom left his machine
standing in the road in front of the house, while he went back to get a
robe, as it threatened to be chilly.

As he came back to enter the car, he saw some one standing near it.

"Is that you, Ned?" he called. "Come, take a spin."

Hardly had he spoken than there sounded from the machine a whirr that
told of the current being turned on.

"Don't do that!" cried Tom, knowing at once that it could not be Ned,
who never meddled with the machinery.

A blinding flash and a loud report followed, and Tom saw some one leap
from his car, and try to run away. But the figure stumbled, and, a
moment later the young inventor was upon him, grappling with him.

"Here! Let me go!" cried a voice, and Tom uttered an exclamation of
surprise.

"Andy Foger!" he cried. "I've caught you! You tried to damage my car!"

"Yes, and I'm hurt, too!" whined Andy. "My father will sue you for
damages if I die."

"No danger of that; you're too mean," murmured Tom, as he maintained a
tight grip on the bully.

"You let me go!" demanded Andy, squirming to get away.

"Wait until I see what damage you've done," retorted the young
inventor. "The worst, though, would be the blowing out of a fuse, for I
had the gear disconnected. You wait a minute now. Maybe it's you who'll
have to pay damages."

"You let me go!" fairly screamed Andy, and he aimed a blow at Tom. It
caught our hero on the chest and Tom's fighting blood was up in an
instant. He drew back his left hand, and delivered a blow that landed
fairly on Andy's right eye. The bully staggered and went down in the
dust.

"There!" cried Tom, righteously angry. "That will teach you not to try
to damage my car, and then hit me into the bargain! Now clear out,
before I give you some more!"

Whining and blubbering Andy arose to his feet.

"You just wait. I'll get square with you for this," he threatened.

"You can accept part of that as pay for what you did in the tar and
feathering game," added Tom. Then, as Andy moved in front of one of the
electric side lamps on the car, Tom uttered a whistle of surprise. For
both of Andy's eyes were bruised and swollen, though Tom had only hit
him once.

"Look at me!" cried the bully, more squint-eyed than ever.  "Look at
me! You hit me in one eye, and that explosion hit me in the other! My
father will sue you for this."

As he hurried off down the road Tom understood. Andy coming along, had
seen Tom's car standing there, and, thinking to do some mischief, had
climbed in, and turned on the power. Perhaps he hoped it would run into
the roadside ditch and be smashed. But as the gear was out, turning on
the electric current had a different effect. As the bully pulled the
handle over too quickly, throwing almost the entire force of the
battery into the wires at once, the load was too heavy for them. A
safety fuse blew out, causing the flare and the explosion, and a piece
of the soft lead-like metal had hit the red-haired lad in the eye.
Tom's fist had completed the work on the other optic, and for several
days thereafter Andy Foger remained in seclusion. When he did go out
there were many embarrassing questions put to him, as to when he had
had the fight. Andy didn't care to answer. As for Tom, it did not take
long to put a new fuse in his car, and he greatly enjoyed his ride with
Miss Nestor that night.




CHAPTER XVI

TROUBLE AT THE BANK


Coming in rather late from his trip to Mansburg, and thinking of some
things he and Miss Nestor had talked about, Tom was rather surprised,
on reaching the house, to see a light in his father's particular room,
where the aged inventor did his reading and his planning of new devices.

"Dad's up rather late," said Tom to himself. "I wonder if he's studying
over some new machine."

The lad ran his auto into the temporary garage he had built for it, and
connected the wires of a burglar alarm he had arranged, to give warning
in case any of his enemies should seek to damage the car.

Tom encountered Garret Jackson, the aged inventor who was going his
rounds, seeing that everything was all right about the various shops.

"Anybody with my father, Garret?" asked the lad. "I see he's still up."

"Yes," was the rather unexpected reply. "Mr. Damon is with him.
They've been in your father's room all the evening--ever since you went
away in the car."

"Anything the matter?" inquired the young inventor, a bit anxious, as
he thought of the Happy Harry gang.

"Well, I don't know," and the engineer seemed puzzled. "They called me
in once to know if everything was all right outside, and to inquire if
you were back. I saw, then, that they were busy figuring over
something, but I didn't take much notice. Only I heard Mr. Damon say:
'There's going to be trouble if we can't realize on those bonds,' and
then I came away."

"Is that all he said?" asked Tom.

"No, he said 'Bless my buttons,' or something like that; but he blesses
so many things I didn't pay much attention."

"That's right," agreed the lad. "But I wonder what the trouble is
about? I must go see."

As he passed along the hall, out of which his father's combined study
and library opened, the aged inventor came to the door.

"Is that you, Tom?" he asked.

"Yes, Dad."

"Come in here, if you haven't anything else to do. Mr. Damon is here."

Tom needed but a single glance at the faces of his father and Mr. Damon
to see that something was troubling the two. The table in front of them
was littered with papers covered with rows of figures.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom.

"Well, I suppose I ought not to let it bother me, but it does," replied
his father.

"Something wrong with your patents, Dad? Has the crowd of bad men been
bothering you again?"

"No, it isn't that. It's trouble at the bank, Tom."

"Has it been robbed again?" asked the lad quickly. "If it has I can
prove an alibi," and he smiled at the recollection of the time he and
Mr. Damon had been accused of looting the vault, as told in "Tom Swift
and His Airship."

"No, it hasn't been robbed in just that way," put in Mr. Damon.  "But,
bless my shoe laces, it's almost as bad! You see, Tom, since Mr. Foger
started the new bank he's done his best to cripple the one in which
your father and I are interested. I may say we are very vitally
interested in it, for, since the withdrawal of Foger and his
associates, your father and I have been elected directors."

"I didn't know that," remarked the lad.

"No, I didn't tell you, because you were so busy on your electric car,"
rejoined Mr. Swift. "But Mr. Damon and I, being both large depositors,
were asked to assume office, and, as I was not very busy on patent
affairs, I consented."

"But what is the trouble?" inquired Tom.

"I'm coming to it," resumed Mr. Damon. "Bless my check book, I'm coming
to it! You see we have lost several good customers, by reason of Foger
opening the new bank. That wouldn't have mattered so much, as between
your father and myself, and one or two others, we have enough capital
to carry on the business of the bank. But there is a more serious
matter. We hold a number of very good securities, but they are of a
class hard to realize cash for, on short notice. In other words they
are not active bonds, though they are issued by reliable concerns.
Then, too, the bank has lost considerable money by not doing as much
business as it formerly did. In short we don't know just what to do,
Tom, and your father and I were discussing it, when you came in."

"Do you need more money?" asked Tom. "I have some, that is my share
from the submarine treasure, and some I have allowed to accumulate as
royalties from my patents. It's about ten thousand dollars, and you're
welcome to it."

"Thank you, Tom," spoke his father. "We may use your cash, but we'll
need a great deal more than that."

"But why?" asked the lad. "I don't understand. If you have good bonds,
can't you dispose of them, and get the money?"

"We could, Tom, yes, if we had time," replied Mr. Damon. "But to throw
the bonds on the market at short notice would mean that we would not
get a good price for them. We would lose considerable."

"But why do it in a hurry?"

"Because there is need of hurry," responded Mr. Swift.

"That's it," joined in Mr. Damon. "We have to have cash in a hurry,
Tom, to meet pressing demands, and we don't just see our way clear to
get it. I am trying to raise it on some private securities I own, but I
can't get an answer within several days.  Meanwhile the bank may fail,
because of lack of funds. Of course no one would lose anything,
ultimately, as we could go into the hands of a receiver, and,
eventually pay dollar for dollar. Your father and I, and some of the
other directors, might lose a little, but the depositors would not. But
your father and I don't like the idea of failing. It's something I've
never done, and I'm too old to start in now, bless my cash ledger if
I'm not!"

"And for the sake of my reputation in this community I don't want to
see the bank close its doors," added Mr. Swift. "It would give Foger
too good a chance to crow over us."

"And you need cash in a hurry," went on Tom. "How much?"

"Fifty thousand dollars at least," replied Mr. Damon.

"And if you don't get it?"

The eccentric man shrugged his shoulders.

"Well," remarked Mr. Swift musingly, "I don't see that we need worry
you about it, Tom. Perhaps--"

Mr. Swift was interrupted by a ring at the front door. The three looked
at each other. It was late for a caller, and Mrs. Baggert had gone to
bed.

"I'll answer it," volunteered Tom. He switched on the electric light in
the hall, and opened the door. He was confronted by Mr. Pendergast, the
president of the bank.

"Is your father in?" asked Mr. Pendergast, and he seemed to be much
agitated.

"Yes, he is," replied the lad. "Come this way, please."

"I want to see him on important business," went on the president, as he
followed the young inventor. "I'm afraid I have bad news for him and
Mr. Damon. Bad news, Tom, bad news," and the aged banker's voice
trembled. Tom, with a chill of apprehension seeming to clutch his
heart, threw open the library door.




CHAPTER XVII

A RUN ON THE BANK


"Why, Mr. Pendergast!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, rising quickly as Tom
ushered in the aged president. "Whatever is the matter? You here at
this hour? Bless my trial balance! Is anything wrong?

"I'm afraid there is," answered the bank head. "I have just received
word which made it necessary for me to see you both at once. I'm glad
you're here, Mr. Damon."

He sank wearily into a chair which Tom placed for him, and Mr. Swift
asked:

"Have you been able to raise any cash, Mr. Pendergast?"

"No, I am sorry to say I have not, but I did not come here to tell you
that. I have bad news for you. As soon as we open our doors in the
morning, there will be a run on the bank."

"A run on the bank?" repeated Mr. Swift.

"The moment we begin business in the morning," went on Mr. Pendergast.

"Bless my soul, then don't begin business!" cried Mr. Damon.

"We must," insisted Mr. Pendergast. "To keep the doors closed would be
a confession at once that we have failed. No, it is better to open
them, and stand the run as long as we can. When we have exhausted our
cash--" he paused.

"Well?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Then we'll fail--that's all."

"But we mustn't let the bank fail!" cried Mr. Swift. "I am willing to
put some of my personal fortune into the bank capital in order to save
it. So is my son here."

"That's right," chimed in Tom heartily. "All I've got. I'm not going to
let Andy Foger get ahead of us; nor his father either."

"I'll help to the limit of my ability," added Mr. Damon.

"I appreciate all that," continued the president. "But the unfortunate
part of it is that we need cash. You gentlemen, like myself, probably,
have your money tied up in stocks and bonds. It is hard to get cash
quickly, and we must have cash as soon as we open in the morning, to
pay the depositors who will come flocking to the doors. We must prepare
for a run on the bank."

"How do you know there will be a run?" asked the young inventor.

"I received word this evening, just before I came here," replied Mr.
Pendergast. "A poor widow, who has a small amount in the bank, called
on me and said she had been advised to withdraw all her cash. She said
she preferred to see me about it first, as she did not like to lose her
interest. She said a number of her acquaintances, some of whom are
quite heavy depositors, had also been warned that the bank was unsound,
and that they ought to take out their savings and deposits at once."

"Did she say who had thus warned her?" inquired Mr. Swift.

"She did," was the reply, "and that shows me that there is a conspiracy
on foot to ruin our bank. She stated that Mr. Foger had told her our
institution was unsound."

"Mr. Foger!" cried Mr. Damon. "So this is one of his tricks to bolster
up his new bank! He hopes the people who withdraw their money from our
bank will deposit with him. I see his game. He's a scoundrel, and if
it's possible I'm going to sue him for damages after this thing is
over."

"Did he warn the others?" inquired the aged inventor.

"Not all of them," answered the president. "Some received letters from
a man signing himself Addison Berg, warning them that our bank, was
likely to fail any day."

"Addison Berg!" exclaimed Tom. "That must have been the important
business he had with Mr. Foger, the day I showed him the watch charm!
They were plotting the ruin of our bank then," and he told his father
about his disastrous pursuit of the submarine agent.

"Very likely Foger is working with Berg," admitted Mr. Damon.  "We will
attend to them later. The question is, what can we do to save the bank?"

"Get cash, and plenty of it," advised Mr. Pendergast. "Suppose we go
over the whole situation again?" and they fell to talking stocks:
bonds, securities, mortgages and interest, until the youth, interested
as he was in the situation, could follow it no longer.

"Better go to bed, Tom," advised his father. "You can't help us any,
and we have many details to go over."

The lad reluctantly consented, and he was soon dreaming that he was in
his electric auto, trying to pull up a thousand pound lump of gold from
the bottom of the sea. He awoke to find the bedclothes in a lump on his
chest, and, removing them, fell into a deep slumber.

When the young inventor awoke the next morning, Mrs. Baggert told him
that his father and Mr. Damon had risen nearly an hour before, had
partaken of a hearty breakfast, and departed.

"They told me to tell you they were at the bank," said the housekeeper.

"Did Mr. Pendergast stay all night?" inquired Tom.

"I heard some one go away about two o'clock this morning," replied the
housekeeper. "I don't know who it was."

"They must have had a long session," thought Tom, as he began on his
bacon, eggs and coffee. "I'll take a run down to the bank in my
electric in a little while."

The car was still in rather crude shape, outwardly, but the mechanism
was now almost perfect. Tom charged the batteries well before starting
out.

The youth had no sooner come in sight of the old Shopton bank, to
distinguish it from the Second National, which Mr. Foger had started,
than he was aware that something unusual had occurred.  There was quite
a crowd about it, and more persons were constantly arriving to swell
the throng.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom, of one of the few police officers of
which Shopton boasted, though the lad did not need to be told.

"Run on the bank," was the brief answer. "It's failed."

Tom felt a pang of disappointment. Somehow, he had hoped that his
father and his friends might have been able to stave off ruin. As he
approached nearer Tom was made aware that the crowd was in an ugly mood.

"Why don't they open the doors and give us our money?" cried one
excited woman. "It's ours! I worked hard for mine, an' now they want to
keep it from us. I wish I'd put it in the new bank."

"Yes, that's the best place," added another. "That Mr. Foger has lots
of money."

"I can see the hand of Andy's father, and that of Mr. Berg, at work
here," thought Tom, "They have spread rumors of the bank's trouble, and
hope to profit by it. I wish I could find a way to beat them at their
own game."

As the minutes passed, and the bank was not opened, the ugly temper of
the crowd increased. The few police could do nothing with the mob, and
several, bolder than the rest, advocated battering down the doors. Some
went up the steps and began to pound on the portals. Tom looked for a
sight of his father or Mr. Damon, but could not see either.

It was not the regular hour for opening the bank, but when the police
reminded the people of this they only laughed.

"I guess they ain't going to open anyhow!" shouted a man.  "They've got
our money, and they're going to keep it. What difference is an hour,
anyway?"

"Yes, if they have the money, why don't they open, and not wait until
ten o'clock?" cried another. "I've got a hundred and five dollars in
there, and I want it!"

More excited persons were arriving every minute. The crowd surged this
way, and that. Many looked anxiously at the clock in the tower of the
town hall. The gilded hands pointed to a few minutes of ten. Would the
bank open its doors when the hour boomed out? Many were anxiously
asking this question.

Tom sat in his electric car, near the front of the bank. The interest
of the crowd, which under ordinary circumstances would have been
centered in the queer vehicle, was not drawn toward it.  The people
were all thinking of their money.

Suddenly one of the two doors of the bank slowly opened. There was a
yell from the crowd, and a rush to get in. But the police managed to
hold the leaders back, and then Tom saw that it was Ned Newton, who
stood in the partly-opened portal. He held up his hand to indicate
silence, and a hush fell over the mob.

"The bank is open for business," Ned announced, "but there must be no
rush. The building is not large enough to accommodate you all. If you
form a line, you will be admitted in turn. The bank hopes to pay you
all."

"Hopes!" cried a woman scornfully. "We can't eat hopes, young man, nor
yet pay the rent with it. Hopes indeed!"

But Ned had said all he cared to, and, with rather a white face, he
went back inside. The one door remained open and, with a policeman on
either side, a line of anxious depositors was slowly formed. Tom
watched them crowding and surging forward, all eager to be first to get
their cash out, lest there be not enough for all. As he watched, the
young inventor was aware that some was signaling to him from the big
window of the bank. He looked more closely and saw Ned Newton beckoning
to him, and the young cashier was motioning Tom to go around to the
rear, where a door of the bank opened on a small alley. Wondering what
was wanted, Tom slowly ran his machine down the side street, and up the
alley. No one paid any attention to him.

A porter admitted the lad, and he made his way to the private offices,
where he knew his father and Mr. Damon would be. In the corridors he
could hear the murmur of the throng and the chink of money, as the
tellers paid it out.

"Well, Tom, this is bad business," remarked Mr. Swift, as he saw his
son. The lad noticed that Mr. Damon was in the telephone booth.

"Yes, Dad," admitted Tom. "It's a run, all right. What are you going to
do?"

"The best we can. Pay out all the cash we have, and hope that before
that time, the people will come to their senses. The bank is all right
if they would only wait. But I'm afraid they won't and, after we pay
out all the cash we have, we'll have to close the doors. Then there's
sure to be an unpleasant scene, and maybe some of the more hot-headed
ones will advocate violence. We have given orders to the tellers to pay
out as slowly as possible, so as to enable us to gain some time."

"And all you need is money; is that it, Dad?"

"That's it, Tom, but we have exhausted every possibility. Mr. Damon is
trying a forlorn hope now, but, even if he is successful--"

Before Mr. Swift had ceased speaking, Mr. Damon fairly burst from the
telephone booth. He was much excited.

"I've got it! I've got it!" he cried.

"What?" asked Mr. Swift and Tom in the same breath.

"The cash, or, what's just as good, the promise of it. I called up Mr.
Chase, of the Clayton National Bank, and he has agreed to take the
railroad securities I offered him as collateral, and let me have sixty
thousand dollars on them! That will give us cash enough to weather the
storm. Hurrah! We're all right now. Bless my check book!"

"The Clayton National Bank," remarked Mr. Swift, and his voice was
hopeless. "It's forty miles away, Mr. Damon, and no railroad around
here runs anywhere near it. No one could get there and back with the
cash to-day, in time to save us from ruin. It's impossible! Our last
chance is gone."

"How far did you say it was, Dad?" asked Tom quickly.

"Forty miles there, over forty, I guess, and not very good roads. We
would need to have the cash here before three o'clock to be of any
service to us. No, it's out of the question. The bank will have to
fail!"

"No!" cried the young inventor, and his voice rang out through the
room. "I'll get the cash for you!"

"How?" gasped Mr. Damon. "You can't get there and back in time?"

"Yes, I can!" cried Tom. "In my electric runabout! I can make it go a
hundred miles an hour, if necessary! Probably I'll have to run slow
over the bad roads; but I can do it! I know I can.  I'll get the sixty
thousand dollars for you!"

For a moment there was silence. Then Mr. Damon cried:

"Good! And I'll go with you and deliver the securities to Mr. Chase.
Come on, Tom Swift! Bless my collar button, but maybe we can yet save
the old bank after all!"




CHAPTER XVIII

AFTER THE CASH


Tom's proposal as a way out of the difficulty, and the prompt seconding
of it by Mr. Damon, seemed to deprive the other bank officials, Mr.
Swift included, of the power of speech for a few moments. Then, as
there came to the room where the scene had taken place, the sound of
the mob outside, clamoring for cash, Mr. Pendergast, the president,
remarked in a low voice:

"It seems to be the only way. Do you think you can do it, Tom Swift?"

"I'm sure of it, as far as my electric car is concerned," replied the
young inventor. "If we get the cash I'll have it back here on time. The
runabout is all ready for a fast trip."

"Then don't lose any time, Tom," advised his father. "Every minute
counts."

"Yes," added Mr. Damon. "Come on. I've got the securities in my valise,
and we can bring the cash back in the same satchel. Come on, Tom."

The eccentric character caught up his valise, and started from the
room. Tom followed.

"Now, my son, be careful," advised his father. "You know the need of
haste, but don't take unnecessary risks. You'd better go out the back
way, as the crowd is easily excited."

Little more was said. Mr. Swift clasped his son's hand in a firm
pressure, and the bank president nervously bade the lad good-by. Then,
slipping out of the bank, by the rear entrance, the porter closing the
door after them, Tom and Mr. Damon took their places in the electric
machine.

"Just imagine you're racing for that three-thousand-dollar prize,
offered by the Touring Club of America, Tom," observed Mr. Damon, as he
deposited the valise at his feet.

"I don't have to do that," replied the youth. "I'm trying for a bigger
prize than that. I want to save the bank, and defeat the schemes of the
Fogers--father and son."

Tom turned on the power, and the machine rolled out on the main street.
As it turned the corner, leaving the impatient crowd of depositors, now
larger than ever, behind, Mr. Damon glanced over at the new bank, and,
as he did so, he called to Tom:

"There are the Fogers now."

The young inventor looked, and saw Andy and his father on the steps of
the new institution.

At the sight of the electric car, speeding along, Andy turned and spoke
to his parent. What he said seemed to impress Mr. Foger, for he
started, and looked more intently at Tom and Mr. Damon. Then, as Tom
watched, he saw the two excitedly conversing, and a moment later Andy
ran off in the direction in which Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey lived.

"I wonder if he's up to any tricks?" thought Tom, as he turned on more
power. "Well, if he is, I'll soon be where he can't reach me."

The young inventor did not dare send his car at full speed through the
streets of the town, and it was not until several minutes had passed
that they could go at more than the ordinary rate. But once the open
country was reached Tom "opened her up full," and the song the motor
sung was one of power. The vehicle quickly gathered headway and was
soon fairly whizzing along.

"If we keep this up we'll be there and back in good time," remarked Mr.
Damon.

"Yes, but we can't do it," replied his companion. "The road to Clayton
is a poor one, and we'll soon be on it. Then we'll have to go slow. But
I'll make all the time I can until then."

So, for several miles more they crept along, at times having to reduce
to almost a walking pace, because of bad roads. Mr. Damon looked at his
watch almost every other minute.

"Eleven o'clock," he remarked, as they passed a milestone, "and we're
not half way there. Bless my gizzard, but I'm afraid we won't make it,
Tom. We left about ten, and we ought to be back by two o'clock to do
any good. That's four hours, and it will take some time to transfer the
securities, and get the cash. Every minute counts."

"I know it," answered Tom, "and I'm going to count every minute."

With eager eyes he watched every inch of the road, to steer to the best
advantage. His hands gripped the wheel until his knuckles showed white
with the strain, and, every now and then his right hand adjusted the
speed lever or the controller handle, while his foot was on the
emergency brake, ready to stop the car at the first sign of danger.

And there was danger, not infrequently, for the road was up and down
hill, over frail bridges, and along steep cliffs. It was no pleasure
tour they were on.

When a little over half the distance had been made they came to a
better road, and Tom was able to use full speed ahead. Then the
electric went so fast that, had it not been for the steel wind-shield
in front, Mr. Damon, at any rate, would have been short of breath.

"This is going some!" he cried to Tom. The lad nodded grimly, and
shoved the controller handle over to the last notch. Then came a bad
stretch and they had to slow down again. As they were about out of it
there came a little flash of fire and the motor stopped.

"Bless my overshoes!" cried Mr. Damon. "What's that; a fuse blown out?"

"No," replied Tom, with a puzzled air. "But something has gone wrong."
Hastily he got out, and made an examination. He found it was only one
of the unimportant wires which had short-circuited, and it was soon
adjusted. But they had lost five precious minutes. Tom tried to make up
for lost time, but came to a hill a little later, and this reduced
their speed.

"Do you think we can make it before twelve?" asked Mr. Damon anxiously.
"We've got to, if we're to get back before three, Tom."

"I'll try," was the calm answer, and Tom's jaw was shut still more
tightly. Once again came more favorable roads and pushing the car to
the limit the occupants were rejoiced, a little later, as they topped a
hill, to come in sight of a fairly large city.

"There's Clayton!" cried Mr. Damon.

Ten minutes later they were rolling through the main street, and as
they stopped in front of the bank, the noon whistles blew shrill and
noisily.

"You did it, Tom!" cried Mr. Damon, springing out with the valise of
securities. "Now be ready for the return trip. I'll be with you as soon
as possible."

He went up the bank steps three at a time, like some boy instead of an
elderly man. Tom looked after him for a second and then got down to oil
up his car, and make some adjustments that had rattled loose from the
rough road. Unmindful of the curious throng that gathered he crawled
under the machine with his oil-can.

He had finished his work, and was back in his seat, ready to start, but
Mr. Damon had not reappeared.

"It's taking him a good while to get that cash," thought Tom.  "Maybe
the securities were no good."

But, a few minutes later, Mr. Damon came hurrying from the bank. The
valise he carried seemed much heavier than when he went in.

"It's all right, Tom," he said. "I've got it. Now for the trip home,
and I hope we don't have any accidents. It took longer than I thought
to check over the bonds and receipt for them. But I've got the cash.
Now to save the bank!"

He took his place beside the young inventor, holding the valise between
his knees, while Tom turned on the power and sent his car dashing down
the street, and toward the road that led to Shopton.




CHAPTER XIX

STOPPED ON THE ROAD


"Did Mr. Chase make any objection to giving you the cash?" asked Tom,
as he shoved the controller over another notch, and caused the motor to
make a higher note in its song of speed.

"Oh, no, he was very nice about it," replied Mr. Damon. "He said he
hoped our bank would pull through. Said if we needed more cash we could
have it."

It was nearly one o'clock, and they had the worst part of the journey
yet to go. Thirty miles of stiff roads lay between them and Shopton,
the last five and the first five being fairly good, with, here and
there, soft spots.

Up hill and down went the electric auto. At every opportunity Tom let
out all the speed he could draw from the motor, but there were many
times when he had to slow down. He had just made the ascent of a steep
hill, and was turning into a fairly good road, skirting the edge of a
steep cliff, when there came a sharp report.

"Bless my soul! That's a fuse, I'm sure of it!" cried Mr. Damon.

"No," announced Tom, as he quickly shut off the power. "It's a
puncture. One of the inner tubes of the tire has been pierced. I was
afraid of that tube."

"What have you got to do; put on a new tire?" asked Mr. Damon.

"No, I'm going to put on a new wheel. I carry two spare ones with tires
all ready inflated. It won't take long."

But the process of changing wheels consumed more time than Tom
anticipated for the nut was stuck, and he and Mr. Damon had to exert
all their strength before they could loosen it. When the new wheel was
in place ten minutes had been lost.

"Hold on now, I'm going to speed her!" cried Tom, when they were once
more in their seats, and speed the machine he did. The road was rough,
but despite this the lad turned on almost full power. Over the bumps
they went, around curves and into rain-washed ruts careening from side
to side, and throwing Mr. Damon about, as he expressed it afterward,
"like a bean inside of a football." As for the young inventor his grasp
of the steering wheel, and the manner in which he could brace himself
against the foot pedals, held him more firmly in place. On and on they
rushed, covering mile after mile, and approaching Shopton where so much
depended on their arrival.

Good and bad stretches of the road alternated, but now that Tom had
seen of what mettle his car was made, he did not spare it as much as he
had on the first trip. He saw that his machine would stand hard knocks,
and the way the battery and motor was behaving was a joy to him. He
knew that if he could make that eighty-mile run in safety he stood a
good chance of winning the prize, for no harder test could have been
devised.

But the race was still far from won. There was a particularly unsafe
stretch of road yet to be covered, and then would come a smooth highway
into Shopton.

"Ten miles more," observed Mr. Damon, snapping shut his big gold watch.
"Ten miles more, and it's a quarter of two now. We ought to be there at
a quarter after, and that will be in good time, eh, Tom?"

"I think so, but I don't know about this piece of road we're coming to.
It seems worse than when we passed over it this morning."

As he spoke the auto began to slow up, for the wheels had struck some
heavy sand, and it was necessary to reduce the current. Tom turned back
the controller handle, but watched with eager eyes for a sign that the
roadbed was harder, so that he could increase speed.

As the car turned around a curve, passing through a lonely stretch of
country, with woods on either side of the highway, Tom glancing up,
uttered a cry of astonishment.

"What's the matter; something gone wrong?" asked his companion.

For answer Tom pointed. There, just ahead of them, was a big load of
hay, and it was evident that the driver, was in no particular hurry.

"We can't pass that without getting in over our hubs!" cried Tom. "If
we turn out the side ditches are so soft that we'll need help to pull
out, and the road is so narrow for several miles that we'll have to
trail along behind that fellow."

"Bless my check book!" cried Mr. Damon. "Are we going to lose, after
all, on account of a load of hay? No, I'll buy it from him first, at
double the market price, tip it over, set fire to it, toss it in the
ditch, and then we can go past!"

"Maybe that will answer," retorted Tom, smiling grimly.

He put on a little more speed, and was soon close up behind the load of
hay, ringing his electric bell as a warning.

"I say!" called Mr. Damon to the unseen driver, "can't you turn out and
let us pass?"

"Ha! Hum! Wa'al I guess not!" came the answer, in unmistakable farmer's
accents. "You automobile fellers is too gol-hanged smart, racin' along
th' roads. I've got just as good a right here as you fellers have, by
heck!" The driver did not show himself.

"We know that," responded Tom, as quickly as he could, for he did not
want to anger the man. "But our machine is so heavy that if we turn
into the ditch I'm afraid we'll be mired."

"Huh! So'll I," was the retort from the unseen driver.. "Think I want
t' spile my load of hay?"

"But you have wide tires on, and you wouldn't sink in far," answered
the young inventor. "Besides, it's very necessary that we get past. A
great deal depends on our speed."

"So it does on mine," was the reply. "Ef I git t' market late I'll have
t' stay all night, an' spend money on a hotel bill."

"I'll pay it! I'll pay your bill if you'll only pull out!" cried Mr.
Damon. "I'll give you a hundred dollars!"

He suddenly ceased speaking. From the bushes along the road sprang
several ragged, masked figures. Each one, aiming his weapon at Tom,
said in a low voice, that could not have been heard by the driver of
the hay wagon:

"Slow up your machine, young feller! We want to speak with you, and
don't you make a loud noise, or it won't be healthy for you!"

"Why of all the--!" began Mr. Damon, but another of the footpads
leveling his weapon at the eccentric man growled:

"Dry up, if you don't want to get shot!"

Mr. Damon subsided. Discretion was very plainly the better part of
valor. Tom had shut off the current. The load of hay continued on
ahead. Tom thought perhaps the driver of it might have been in
collusion with the thieves, to cause the auto to slow up.

"What do you want with us?" asked the young inventor, trying to speak
calmly, but finding it a hard task, with a revolver pointed at him.

"You know what we want," exclaimed the leader, in a low voice.  "We
want that cash you got from the bank, and we're going to have it! Come,
now, shell out!" and he advanced toward the automobile.




CHAPTER XX

ON TIME


Close around the electric auto crowded the members of the hold-up gang.
Their eyes seemed to glare through the holes in their black masks.
Instantly Tom thought of the other occasion when he was halted by
masked figures. Could these, by any possibility, be the same
individuals? Was this a trick of Andy Foger and his cronies?

Tom tried to pierce through the disguises. Clearly the persons were
men--not boys--and they wore the ragged clothes of tramps.  Also, there
was an air of dogged determination about them.

"Well, are you going to shell out?" asked the leader, taking a step
nearer, "or will we have to take it?"

"Bless my very existence! You don't mean to say that you're going to
take the money--I mean how do you know we have any money?" and Mr.
Damon hastily corrected himself. "What right have you to stop us in
this way? Don't you know that every minute counts? We are in a hurry."

"I know it," spoke the leading masked figure with a laugh. "I know you
have considerable money in that shebang, and I know what you hope to do
with it, prevent the run on the Shopton National Bank. But we need that
money as much as some other people and, what's more, we're going to
have it! Come on, shell out!"

"Oh, why didn't we bring a gun!" lamented Mr. Damon in a low voice to
Tom. "Isn't there anything we can do? Can't you give them an electric
shock, Tom?"

"I'm afraid not. If it wasn't for that hay wagon we could turn on the
current and make a run for it. But we'd only go into the ditch if we
tried to pass now."

The load of hay was down the road, but as Tom looked he noticed a
curious thing. It seemed to be nearer than it was when the attack of
the masked men came. The wagon actually seemed to have backed up. Once
more the thought came to the lad that possibly the load of fodder might
be one of the factors on which the thieves counted. They might have
used it to make the auto halt, and the man, or men, on it were probably
in collusion with the footpads. There was no doubt about it, the load
of hay was coming nearer, backing up instead of moving away. Tom
couldn't understand it. He gave a swift glance at the robbers. They had
not appeared to notice this, or, if they had, they gave no sign.

"Then we can't do anything," murmured Mr. Damon.

"I don't see that we can," replied the young inventor in a low voice.

"And the money we worked so hard to get won't do the bank any good,"
and Mr. Damon sighed.

"It's tough luck," agreed Tom.

"Come now, fork over that cash!" called the leader, advancing still
closer. "None of that talk between you there. If you think you can work
some trick on us you're mistaken. We're desperate men, and we're well
armed. The first show of resistance you make, and we shoot--get that,
fellows?" he added to his followers, and they nodded grimly.

"Well," remarked Mr. Damon with an air of submission, "I only want to
warn you that you are acting illegally, and that you are perpetrating a
desperate crime."

"Oh, we know that all right," answered one of the men, and Tom gave a
start. He was sure he had heard that voice before. He tried to remember
it--tried to penetrate the disguise--but he could not.

"I'll give you ten seconds more to hand over that bag of money," went
on the leader. "If you don't, we'll take it and some of you may get
hurt in the process."

There seemed nothing else to do. With a white face, but with anger
showing in his eyes Mr. Damon reached down to get the valise. Tom had
retained his grip of the steering wheel, and the starting lever. He
hoped, at the last minute, he might see a chance to dash away, and
escape, but that load of hay was in the path. He noted that it was now
quite near, but the thieves paid no attention to it.

Tom might have reversed the power, and sent his machine backward, but
he could not see to steer it if he went in that direction, and he would
soon have gone into the ditch. There was nothing to do save to hand
over the cash, it seemed.

Mr. Damon had the bag raised from the car, and the leader of the
thieves was reaching up for it, when there came a sudden interruption.

From the load of hay there sounded a fusillade of pistol shots,
cracking out with viciousness. This was instantly followed by the
appearance of three men who came running from around the load of hay,
down the road toward the thieves. Each man carried a pitchfork, and as
they ran, one of the trio shouted:

"Right at 'em, boys! Jab your hay forks clean through the scoundrels!
By Heck, I guess we'll show 'em we know how t' tackle a hold-up gang as
well as the next fellow! Right at 'em now!  Charge 'em! Stick your
forks right through 'em!"  Again there sounded a fusillade of pistol
shots.

The thieves turned as one man, and glanced at the relief so
unexpectedly approaching. They gave one look at the three determined
looking farmers, with their sharp, glittering pitchforks, and then,
without a word, they turned and fled, leaping into the bushes that
lined the roadway. The underbrush closed after them and they were
hidden from sight.

On came the three farmers, waving their effective weapons, the pistol
shots still ringing out from the load of hay. Tom could not understand
it, and could see no one firing--could detect no smoke.

"Are they gone? Did they rob ye?" asked the foremost of the trio, a
burly, grizzled farmer. "Bust my buttons, but I guess we skeered 'em
all right!"

"Bless my shoe buttons, but you certainly have!" cried Mr. Damon,
descending from the automobile, and wringing the hand of the farmer,
while Tom, thrust the bag of money under his legs and waited further
developments. The pistol shots rang out until one of the men called:

"That'll do, Bub! We've skeered 'em like Mrs. Zenoby's pet cat!  You
needn't crack that whip any more."

"Whip!" cried Tom. "Was that a whip?"

"That's what it was," explained the leading farmer. "Bub Armstrong, my
nephew, can crack it to beat th' band," and as if in proof of this
there emerged from behind the load of hay a small lad, carrying a large
whip, to which he gave a few trial cracks, like pistol shots, as if to
show his ability.

"It's all right, Bub," his uncle assured him. "We made 'em run."

"But I don't exactly understand," spoke Mr. Damon. "I thought you were
in league with those thieves, stopping us as you did with your big
load."

"So did I," admitted Tom.

"Ha! Ha!" laughed the farmer. "That's a pretty good joke.  Excuse me
for laughin'. My name's Lyon, Jethro Lyon, of Salina Township, an'
these is my two sons, Ade and Burt. You see we're on our way to
Shopton, an' my nephew, Bub, he went along. We thought you was some of
them sassy automobile fellers at first when you hollered to us you
wanted to pass. Then when we looked back, we seen them burglars goin'
t' rob you, at least that's what we suspicioned," and he paused
suggestively.

"That was it," Tom said.

"Wa'al, when we seen that, we held a sort of consultation on thet load
of hay, where they couldn't see us. It was so big you know," he
needlessly explained. "Wa'al, we calcalated we could help you, so I
jest quietly backed up, until we was near enough.  I told Bub to take
the long whip, an' crack it for all he was wuth, so's it would sound
like reinforcements approachin' with guns, an' he done it."

"He certainly done it," added Burt.

"Wa'al," resumed Mr. Lyon, "then me an my sons we jest slipped down off
the front seat, an' come a runnin' with our pitchforks.  I reckoned
them burglars would run when they see us an' heard us, an' they done
so."

"Yep, they done so," added Ade, like an echo.

"I can't tell you how much obliged we are to you," said Mr. Damon. "We
have sixty thousand dollars in this valise, and they would have had it
in another minute, and the bank would have failed."

"Sixty thousand dollars!" gasped Mr. Lyon, and his sons and nephew
echoed the words. Mr. Damon briefly explained about the money, and he
and the young inventor again thanked their rescuers, who had so
unexpectedly, and in such a novel manner, put the thieves to flight.

"An' you've got t' git t' Shopton before three o'clock with thet cash?"
asked Mr. Lyon.

"That's what we hoped to do," replied Tom "but I'm afraid we won't now.
It's half past two, and--"

"Don't say another word," interrupted Mr. Lyon. "I know what ye mean.
My hay's in the road. But don't let that worry ye none.  I'll pull out
of your road in a jiffy, an' if we do go down in th' ditch, why we can
throw off part of th' load, lighten th' wagon, an' pull out again.
You've got t' hustle if ye git t' Shopton by three o'clock."

"I can do it with a clear road," declared Tom, confidently.

"Then ye'll have th' clear road," Mr. Lyon assured him. "Come boys,
let's git th' hay t' one side."

The farmers pulled into the ditch. As they had feared the wagon went in
almost to the hubs, but they did not mind, and, even as Tom and Mr.
Damon shot past them, they fell to work tossing off part of the fodder,
to lighten the wagon. The young inventor and his companion waved a
grateful farewell to them as they fairly tore past, for Tom had turned
on almost the full current.

"Do you suppose that was the Happy Harry gang, or some members of it
who were not captured and sent to jail?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I don't believe so," answered the lad, shaking his head.  "Maybe they
didn't really want to rob us. Perhaps they only wanted to delay us so
we wouldn't get to the bank on time."

"Bless my top knot, you may be right!" cried Mr. Damon.

Further conversation became difficult, as they struck a rough part of
the road, where the vehicle swayed and jolted to an alarming degree.
But Tom never slackened pace. On and on they rushed, Mr. Damon
frequently looking at his watch.

"We've got twenty minutes left," he remarked as they came out on the
smooth stretch of road, that led directly into Shopton.

Then Tom turned all the reserve power into the motor. The machinery
almost groaned as the current surged into the wires, but it took up the
load, and the electric car, swaying more than ever, dashed ahead with
its burden of wealth.

Now they were in the town, now speeding down the street leading to the
bank. One or two policemen shouted after them, for they were violating
the speed laws, but it was no time to stop for that. On and on they
dashed.

They came in sight of the bank. A long line of persons was still in
front. They seemed more excited than in the morning, for the hour of
three was approaching, and they feared the bank would close its doors,
never to open them again.

"The run is still on," observed Mr. Damon.

"But it will soon be over," predicted Tom.

Some news of the errand of the automobile must have penetrated the
crowd, for as Tom swung past the front entrance to the bank, to go up
the rear alley, he was greeted with a cheer.

"They've got the cash!" a man cried. "I'm satisfied now. I won't draw
out my deposit."

"I want to see the cash before I'll believe it," said another.

Tom slowed up to make the turn into the alley. As he did so he glanced
across the street to the new bank. In the window stood Andy Foger and
his father. There was a look of surprise on their faces as they saw the
arrival of the powerful car, and, Tom fancied, also a look of chagrin.

Up the alley went the car, police keeping the crowd from following. The
porter was at the door. So, also, was Mr. Pendergast and Mr. Swift,
while some of the other officers were grouped behind them.

"Did you get the money?" gasped the president.

"We did," answered Tom. "Are we on time, Dad?"

"Just on time, my boy! They're paying out the last of the cash now!
You're on time, thank fortune!"




CHAPTER XXI

OFF TO THE BIG RACE


From their task of handing out money to eager depositors, the wearied
tellers looked up as Tom and Mr. Damon entered with the big valise
crammed full of money. It was opened, and the bundles of bills turned
out on a table.

"Perhaps you'd better make an announcement to the crowd, Mr.
Pendergast," suggested Mr. Swift. "Tell them we now have cash enough to
meet all demands, and that the bank will be kept open until every one
is paid."

"I will," agreed the aged president. His announcement was received with
cheers, and had exactly the effect the inventor hoped it would.

Many, learning that the bank was safe, and that they could have their
money whenever they wanted it, concluded not to withdraw it, thus
saving the interest. Scores in the waiting crowd turned out of line and
went home. Their example was contagious, and, though many still
remained to get their deposits, the run was broken. Only part of the
sixty thousand dollars Tom and Mr. Damon had brought through after a
race with time, was needed. But had it not been for the moral effect of
the cash arriving as it did, the bank would have failed.

"You have a great car, Tom Swift," complimented Mr. Pendergast, when
the excitement had somewhat cooled down, and the story of the hold-up
had been told.

"I think so myself," agreed the young inventor modestly. "I must get
ready for the races now."

"And as for those farmers, I think I'll send them a reward," went on
the president. "They deserve something for the trouble they had with
the load of hay. I certainly shall send them a reward," which he did,
and a substantial one, too.

Of course the hold-up was at once reported to the police after the run
had quieted down, but Chief Simonson surprised Tom by saying that he
had expected it.

"The gang that held you up," said the police officer, "was one that
escaped from a jail, about twenty miles away. I got a tip after you
left, that they were going to rob you, for, in some way, they learned
about the money you and Mr. Damon were to bring from the bank. The
unfortunate part of it was that the tip I got was to the effect that
the hold-up would take place just outside of Clayton. I telephoned to
the police there, just after you left, and they said they'd send out a
posse. But the gang changed their plans; and held you up near here,
where I wasn't expecting it. But I'll get 'em yet."

Chief Simonson did not arrest the gang, but some other police officers
did, and they were taken back to jail. They were not prosecuted for the
attempted robbery of Tom, as it was considered difficult to fix the
guilt on them, but they received such a long additional sentence for
breaking jail, that it will be many years before they are released.

When Tom reached home that night he found some mail from the officials
of the Touring Club of America. It was to the effect that arrangements
for the big contest had been completed, and that contesting cars must
be on the ground by September first.

"That gives me two weeks yet," thought our hero.

He read further of the regulations covering the race. Each car must
proceed from the home town or city of the owner, and go to the track
under its own power. This was a new regulation, it was stated, and was
adopted to better develop the industry of building electric autos. Two
passengers, or one in addition to the driver, must be carried, it was
stated, and this one would also be expected to be in the car during the
entire race.

Regarding the race proper it was stated that at first it had been
decided to make it a twenty-four hour endurance contest, but that for
certain reasons this was changed, as it was found that few storage
batteries could go this length of time without a number of rechargings.
Therefore the race was to be one for distance--five hundred miles, on
the new Long Island track, and the car first covering that distance
would win. Cars were allowed to change their batteries as often as they
needed to, but all time lost would count against them. There were other
rules and regulations of minor importance.

"Well," remarked Tom, as he read through the circulars, "I must get my
car in shape. It will be quite a trip to Long Island, and I think my
best plan will be to go direct to the cottage we had when we were
building the submarine, and from there proceed to the track. That will
comply with the rules, I think. But who will I get to go with me? I
suppose Mr. Damon or Mr. Sharp will be willing. I'll ask them."

He broached the matter to his two friends that night, and they both
agreed to go to Long Island in the car, though only Mr. Sharp would
accompany Tom in the race. The next two weeks were busy ones for Tom.
He worked night and day over his car, getting it in shape for the big
event.

The young inventor made some changes in his battery, and also adopted a
new gear, which would give greater speed. He also completed the
exterior of the auto, giving it several coats of purple paint and
varnish, so that when it was finished, though it was different in shape
from most autos, it was as fine an appearing car as one could wish. He
arranged to carry two extra wheels, with tires inflated, and, under the
rear seats, or tonneau, as he called it, Tom fitted up a complete
tire-repairing outfit. Mr. Sharp agreed to ride there, and in case
there was need to use more than two spare wheels during the race, the
rubber shoes or inner tubes could be mended while the car was swinging
around the track.

Mr. Damon would ride in front with Tom on the cross-country trip, and
occasionally relieve him at steering, or would help to manage the
electrical connections. Spare fuses, extra parts, wires and different
things he thought he might need, the young inventor stored in his car.
He also found means to install a small additional storage battery, to
give added power in case of emergency.

Tom learned from the racing officials that if he made a trip from
Shopton to the cottage on the coast, near the city of Atlantis, and
later traveled from there to the track, it would fulfill the conditions
of the contest.

Finally all was in readiness, and one morning, having spent the better
part of the night going over his machine, to see that he had forgotten
nothing, Tom invited Mr. Damon and Mr. Sharp to enter, and prepare for
the trip to Long Island.

"Well, Tom, I certainly hope you win that race," remarked Mrs. Baggert,
as she stood in the doorway, waving a farewell.

"If I do I'll buy you a pair of diamond earrings to match the diamond
ring I gave you from the money I got from the wreck," promised the lad
with a laugh.

"An' ef yo' sees dat Andy Foger," added Eradicate Sampson, while he
rubbed the long ears of Boomerang, his mule, "ef yo' sees him, jest run
ober him once or twice fer mah sake, Mistah Swift."

"I'll do it for my own, too," agreed Tom.

The youth shook hands with his father, who wished him good luck, and
then, after a final look at his car, he climbed to his seat, and turned
on the power. There was a low hum from the motor and the electric
started off. Would it return a winner or loser of the big race?




CHAPTER XXII

IN A DITCH


Through the streets of Shopton went Tom Swift and his friends.  News of
the big contest the young inventor was about to take part in, had
circulated around town, and there were not wanting many to wish him
good luck. The lad responded smilingly to the farewells he received. As
they passed the bank, Ned Newton came out on the steps.

"Wish I was going along," he called.

"So do I," replied Tom. "How's everything? Is the bank all right since
the run?" for he had not had time to pay much attention to the
institution since his memorable race against time, to get the money.

"Stronger and better than ever," was Ned's answer, as he came to the
curb, where Tom slowed up. "I hear," he added in a whisper, "that the
other fellows are going out of business--Foger and his crowd you know.
They loaned money on unsecured notes to make a good showing, and now
they can't get it back. But we're all right. Hope you win the race."

"So do I."

"What will a certain person do while you're away?" went on Ned, with a
wink.

"I don't know what you mean," replied Tom, trying not to blush.  "Do
you mean my dad or Mrs. Baggert?"

"Neither, you old hypocrite you! I meant Miss Mary Nestor."

"Oh, hadn't you heard?" inquired Tom innocently. "She is going to Long
Island to visit some friends, and she'll be at the race."

"You lucky dog," murmured Ned with a laugh, as he went into the bank.

Once more the electric auto started off, and was soon on the quiet
country road, where Tom speeded it up moderately. He hoped to be able
to make the entire distance to the shore cottage on the single charge
of current he had put into the battery at home, and, as there was no
special need for haste, he wanted to save his power. The machine was
running smoothly, and seemed able to make a long race against time.

The travelers ate lunch that day at Pendleton, a town some distance
from Shopton. They had covered a substantial part of their trip. After
a brief rest they started on again. Tom had planned to spend two days
and one night on the road, hoping to be able to reach the shore cottage
on the evening of the second day.  There, after recharging the battery,
he would spend a night, or two, and proceed to the track, ready for the
race.

They found the roads fairly good, with bad stretches here and there,
which made it necessary for them to slow down. This delayed them, and
they found the shadows lengthening, and darkness approaching, when they
were still several miles from Burgfield, where they intended to sleep.

"Will it be all right to travel at night?" asked Mr. Damon, a bit
nervously.

"Why, are you thinking of hold-up men?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"No, but I was wondering about the condition of the roads," replied the
eccentric man. "We don't want to run into a rock, or collide with
something."

"I guess this will light up the road far enough in advance, so that we
can see where we are going," suggested Tom, as he switched on the
powerful electric search-light. Though it was not dark enough to
illuminate the highway to the best advantage, the powerful gleam shone
dazzlingly in front of the swiftly moving auto.

"I guess that will show up every pebble in the road," commented the
balloonist. "It's very powerful."

Tom turned off the light, as, until it was darker, he could see to
better advantage unaided by it. He slowed down the speed somewhat, but
was still going at a good rate.

"There's a bridge somewhere about here," remarked the lad, when they
had gone on a mile further. "I remember seeing it on my road map. It's
not very strong, and we'll have to run slow over it."

"Bless my gizzard, I hope we don't go through it!" cried Mr. Damon. "Is
your car very heavy, Tom?"

"Not heavy enough to break the bridge. Ah, there it is. Guess I'll turn
on the light so we can see what we're doing."

Just ahead of them loomed up the super-structure of a bridge, and Tom
turned the searchlight switch. At the instant he did so, whether he did
not keep a steady hand on the steering wheel, or whether the auto went
into a rut from which it could not be turned, did not immediately
develop, but the car suddenly shot from the straight road, and swerved
to one side. There was a lurch, and the front wheels sank down.

"Look out! We're going into the river!" yelled Mr. Damon.

Tom jammed on the brakes and shut off the current. The auto came to a
sudden stop. The young inventor turned the searchlight downward, to
illuminate the ground directly in front of the car.

"Are we in the river?" asked Mr. Sharp.

"No," replied Tom in great chagrin. "We're in a muddy ditch.  One at
the side of the road. Wheels in over the hubs! There should have been a
guard rail here. We're stuck for fair!"




CHAPTER XXIII

THE POWER GONE


"Bless my overshoes!" cried Mr. Damon. "Stuck in the mud, eh?"

"Hard and fast," added Tom, in disgust.

"What's to be done?" inquired Mr. Sharp.

"I should say we'll have to stay here until daylight, and wait for some
other auto to come along and pull us out," was Mr. Damon's opinion.
"It's might unpleasant, too, for there doesn't seem to be any place
around here where we can spend the night in any kind of comfort. If we
had the submarine or the airship, now, it wouldn't so much matter."

"No, and this won't matter a great deal," remarked the young inventor
quickly. "We'll soon be out of this, but it will be hard work."

"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Sharp.

"I mean that we've got to pull ourselves out of this mud hole,"
explained the lad, as he prepared to descend. "I was afraid something
like this would happen, so I came prepared for it. I've got ropes and
pulleys with me, in the car. We'll fasten the rope to the machine,
attach one pulley to the bridge, another to the car, and I guess we can
get out of the mud. We'll try, anyhow."

"Well, I must say you looked pretty far ahead," complimented Mr. Damon.

From a box under the tonneau Tom took out a thin but strong rope and
two compound pulleys, which would enable considerable force to be
applied. Mr. Sharp detached one of the powerful oil lamps, and the
three travelers took a look at the auto. It was indeed deep in the mud
and it seemed like a hopeless task to try to get it out unaided. But
Tom insisted that they could do it, and the rope was soon attached, the
hook of one pulley being slipped around one of the braces of the bridge.

"Now, all together!" cried the lad, as he and his friends grasped the
long rope. They gave a great heave. At first it seemed like pulling on
a stone wall. The rope strained and the pulleys creaked.

"I--guess--we--will--pull--the--bridge--over!" gasped Mr. Sharp.

"Something's got to give way!" puffed Tom. "Now, once more! All
together!"

Suddenly they felt the rope moving. The pulleys creaked still more and,
by the light of the lamp, they could see that the auto was slowly being
pulled backward, out of the mud, and onto the hard road. In a few
minutes it was ready to proceed again.

The rope and pulleys were put away, and, after Tom had made an
examination of the car to see that it had sustained no damage, they
were off again, making good time to the hotel in Burgfield, where they
spent the night. They had an early breakfast, and, as Tom went out to
the barn to look at his car, he saw it surrounded by a curious throng
of men and boys. One of the boys was turning some of the handles and
levers.

"Here! Quit that!" yelled Tom, and the meddlesome lad leaped down in
fright. "Do you want to start the car and have it smash into
something?" demanded the young inventor.

"Aw, nothin' happened," retorted the lad. "I pulled every handle on it,
an' it didn't move."

"Good reason," murmured Tom, for he had taken the precaution to remove
a connecting plug, without which the machine could not be started.

The three were soon under way again, and covered many miles over the
fine country roads, the weather conditions being delightful. On inquiry
they found that by taking an infrequently used highway, they could save
several miles. It was over an unoccupied part of country, rather wild
and desolate, but they did not mind that.

They were whizzing along, talking of Tom's chances for winning the race
when, after climbing a slight grade, the auto came to a sudden stop on
the summit.

"What's the matter?" asked Mr. Sharp. "Why are you stopping here, Tom?"

"I didn't stop," was the surprising answer, and the lad shoved the
starting lever back and forth.

But there was no response. There was no hum from the motor. The machine
was "dead."

"That's queer," murmured the young inventor.

"Maybe a fuse blew out," suggested Mr. Damon, that seeming to be his
favorite form of trouble.

"If it had you'd have known it," remarked Mr. Sharp.

"There's plenty of current in the battery, according to the registering
gauge," murmured the lad. "I can't understand it."  He reversed the
current, thinking the wires might have become crossed, but the machine
would move neither backward nor forward, yet the dial indicated that
there was enough power stored away to send it a hundred miles or more.

"Perhaps the dial hand has become caught," suggested Mr. Sharp.  "That
sometimes happens on a steam gauge, and indicates a high pressure when
there isn't any. Hit it slightly, and see if the hand swings back."

Tom did so. At once the hand fell to zero, indicating that there was
not an ampere of current left. The battery was exhausted, but this fact
had not been indicated on the gauge.

"I see now!" cried Tom. "It was those fellows at the hotel barn! They
monkeyed with the mechanism, short circuited the battery, and jammed
the gauge so I couldn't tell when my power was gone. If I had known
there wasn't enough to carry us I could have recharged the battery at
the hotel. But I figured that I had enough current for the entire trip,
and so there would have been, if it hadn't leaked away. Now we're in a
pretty pickle."

"Bless my hat band!" cried Mr. Damon. "Does that mean we can't move?"

"Guess that's about it," answered Mr. Sharp, and Tom nodded.

"Well, why can't we go on to some place where they sell electricity,
and get enough to take us where we want to go?" asked the odd
character, whose ideas of machinery were somewhat hazy.

"The only trouble is we can't carry the heavy car with us," replied
Tom. "It's too big to pick up and take to a charging station."

"Then we've got to wait until some one comes along with a team of
horses, and tows us in," commented Mr. Sharp. "And that will be some
time, on this lonely road."

Tom shook his head despondently. He went all over the car again, but
was forced to the first conclusion, that the reserve current had leaked
away, in consequence of the meddling prank of the youth at the hotel.
The situation was far from pleasant, and the delay would seriously
interfere with their plans.

Suddenly, as Tom was pacing up and down the road, he heard from afar, a
peculiar humming sound. He paused to listen.

"Trolley car," observed Mr. Sharp. "Maybe one of us could go somewhere
on the trolley and get help. There it is," and he pointed to the
electric vehicle, moving along about half a mile away, at the foot of a
gentle slope.

At the sight of the car Tom uttered a cry. "I have it!" he exclaimed.
"None of us need go for help! It's right at hand!" His companions
looked curiously, as the young inventor pointed triumphantly to the
fast disappearing electric.




CHAPTER XXIV

ON THE TRACK


"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Damon. "Will the electric trolley pull us
to a charging station?"

"No, we'll not need to go to a station," answered the youth.  "If we
can get my car to the trolley tracks I can charge my battery from
there. And I think we can push the auto near enough.  It's down hill,
and I've got a long wire so we won't have to go too close."

"Good!" cried Mr. Sharp. "But attach the rope to the front of the car,
Tom. Mr. Damon and I will pull it. You'll have to ride in it to steer
it."

"We can take turns at riding," was Tom's answer, for he did not want
his companions to do all the work.

"Nonsense! You ride," said Mr. Damon. "You're lighter than we are, and
can steer better. It won't be any trouble at all to pull this car down
hill."

It proved to be an easy task, and in a short time the "dead" auto was
near enough to the electric line to permit Tom to run his charging wire
over to it.

"Why bless my soul!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, looking up. "There's no
overhead trolley wire. The car must run on storage batteries."

"Third rail, more likely," was the opinion of Mr. Sharp and so it
proved.

"I can charge from either the third rail or the trolley wire," declared
Tom, who was insulating his hands in rubber gloves, and getting his
wires ready. In a short time he had the proper connections made, and
the much-needed current was soon flowing into the depleted battery, or
batteries, for there were several sets, though the whole source of
motive power was usually referred to as a "storage battery."

"How long will it take?" asked Mr. Damon.

"About two hours," answered the lad. "We'll probably have to disconnect
our wires several times, whenever a trolley car comes past. By my
system I can recharge the battery very quickly.

"Do you suppose the owners of the road will make any objection?" asked
the balloonist.

"I'm going to pay for the current I use," explained the young inventor.
"I have a meter which tells how much I take."

The hum of an approaching car was heard, and Tom took the wires from
the third rail. The car came to a stop opposite the automobile, the
passengers, as well as the crew, looking curiously at the queer racing
machine. Tom explained to the conductor what was going on, and asked
the fare-collector to notify those in charge of the power station that
all current used would be paid for. The conductor said this would be
satisfactory, he was sure, and the car proceeded, Tom resuming the
charging of his battery.

Allowing plenty of reserve power to accumulate, and making sure that
the gauge would not stick again, and deceive him, the owner of the
speedy electric was soon ready to proceed again. They had been delayed
a little over three hours, for they had to make several shifts, as the
cars came past.

They reached their shore cottage late that night, and, after seeing
that the runabout was safely locked in the big shed where the submarine
had been built, they all went to bed, for they were very tired.

Tom sent word, the next day, to the managers of the race, that he would
be on hand at the time stipulated, and announced that he had made part
of the trip, as required, under the power of the auto itself.

The next day was spent in overhauling the machinery, tightening up some
loose bearings, oiling different parts, and further charging the
battery. Tires were looked to, and the ones on the spare wheels were
gone over to prepare for any emergency that might arise when the race
was started.

On the third day, Tom, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Damon, leaving the cottage
completed the trip to Havenford, Long Island, where the new track had
been constructed.

They reached the place shortly before noon, and, if they had been
unaware of the location they could not have missed it, for there were
many autos speeding along the road toward the scene of the race, which
would take place the following day.

Several electric cars passed Tom and his friends, whizzing swiftly by,
but the young inventor was not going to show off his speed until the
time came. Besides, he did not want to run any risks of an accident.
But some of the contestants seemed anxious for impromptu "brushes," and
more than one called to our hero to "speed up and let's see what she
can do." But Tom smiled, and shook his head.

There were many gasolene and some steam autos going out to the new
track, which was considered a remarkable piece of engineering. It was
in the shape of an octagon, and the turns were considered very safe. It
was a five mile track, and to complete the race it would be necessary
to make a hundred circuits.

Through scores of autos Tom and his friends threaded their way, the
young inventor keeping a watchful eye on the various types of machine
with which he would soon have to compete.

There were many kinds. Some were larger and some smaller than his. Many
obviously carried very large batteries, but whether they had the speed
or not was another question. Some, in spurts, seemed to Tom, to be
fully as fast as his own, and he began to have some doubts whether he
would win the race.

"But I'm not going to give up until the five hundredth mile is
finished," he thought, grimly.

They were now in sight of the track, and noted many machines speeding
around it.

"Go on in and try your car, Tom," urged Mr. Sharp.

"Yes, do," added Mr. Damon. "Let's see how it travels."

"I will, after I notify the proper officials that I have arrived,"
decided the lad.

The formalities were soon complied with. Tom received his entry card,
after paying the fee, made affidavit that he had completed the entire
trip from home under his own power, save for the little stretch when
the car was pulled, which did not count against him, and was soon ready
to go on the track. Only electric cars were allowed there.

As the young inventor guided his latest effort in the machine line onto
the big track there were murmurs of surprise from the throngs.

"That's a queer machine," said one.

"Yes, but it looks speedy," was another's opinion.

"There's the car for my money," added a third, pointing to a big red
electric which was certainly whizzing around the track.  Tom noted the
red car. Behind it was a green one, also moving at a fast rate of speed.

"Those will be my nearest rivals," thought the lad, as he guided his
car onto the track. A moment later he was sending the auto ahead at
moderate speed, while the other contestants looked at the new arrival,
as if trying to discover whether in it they would have a dangerous
competitor.




CHAPTER XXV

WINNING THE PRIZE


After making two circuits of the track at moderate speed, Tom turned on
more power, deciding to see how the machine would behave on the turns,
going at a fast speed. As it happened he forged ahead just as the big
red car was coming up behind him.  The driver of it took this for a
challenge and threw his controller handle forward.

"Come on!" he cried to our hero, when even with him.

Tom did not want to decline the invitation, and the impromptu race was
under way. Soon the green car came rushing up, and for two miles the
three kept almost in line. It was evident that neither the green nor
the red car drivers wanted to "open out," until they saw Tom do so.

He was willing to oblige them, and suddenly increased his speed. They
did the same, and went ahead of him. Then Tom turned on a little more
juice and got the lead, but the two men were right after him, and they
see-sawed like this for two more miles.  Then, with a cry the man in
the red car, with a sudden burst of speed, left Tom and the green car
behind. The green car was soon up to its rival, but Tom decided he
would not spurt.

The lad and his friends spent the early part of the night in making a
final inspection of the machinery, finding it in good order. Then, with
his head filled with visions of the race on the morrow Tom went to bed.
He had made inquiries, by telephone, of the friends of Miss Nestor, and
learned that she had not arrived.  Tom felt a distinct sense of
disappointment.

The day of the race could not have been better. It was ideal weather,
and conditions at the track were just right. Tom was up early, and went
over every inch of his car with a nervous dread that he might find
something the matter.

The final details of the race were completed, and the entrants given
their numbers and places. Tom drew a good position, not the best, but
he had no reason to complain. Half an hour before the start he again
telephoned to see if Miss Nestor had arrived, but she had not, and it
was with rather gloomy thoughts that the lad entered his car, in which
Mr. Sharp had already taken his place.  Mr. Damon went to the
grandstand to watch the race.

"I wanted Mary to see me win," thought our hero, for he had grimly set
his mind on coming in ahead.

There was a great crowd in the grandstand and scattered about the big
track, which took in a large extent of territory. In spite of its
size--five  miles  around--it  seemed  solidly packed for the entire
length with autos, containing gay parties who had come to see the
electric contest. There was a band playing gay airs, as Tom guided his
machine through the entrance gate, and onto the track.

The judges made their final inspection. There were twenty cars entered,
but it was obvious that some of them would not last long, as their
battery capacity was not large enough. Their owners might have relied
on recharging, but how they could do this under the usual slow system,
and hope to win, Tom could not see. He hoped to run the entire distance
on the single charge, but, if by some accident part of his current
should leak away, his battery could be charged in a short time, by
means of his new system, to run for a considerable distance, or he
could install a new one already charged, for he had two sets on hand.
Tom glanced over the cars of his competitors. They were to be sent away
in batches, the affair being a handicap one, with time allowance for
the smaller powered cars. Tom noted that his car and the red and the
green ones were in the same bunch. Tom's car was purple.

"Are you all ready?" asked the starter of the first group of races.

"Ready," was the low-voiced response.

"Crack!" went the pistol, and there followed the hum of the motors as
the current set the mechanism to work. Forward went the cars, amid the
crash of the band and the cheers of the crowd. The big race was under
way.

"Do you feel nervous, Tom?" asked Mr. Sharp.

"Not a bit," replied the lad.

Around and around the track flew the speedy electrics. It was evident
that the holding of a meet solely for cars of this character had
brought out many new ideas that would be to the benefit of the
industry. Some cars were "freaks" and others, like Tom's, showed a
distinct advance over previous styles of construction.

A five-hundred mile race around a track is rather a monotonous affair,
except for what happens, and things very soon began to happen at this
race.

As Tom had expected, several of the machines were forced to withdraw.
Tire troubles beset some, and others found that they were hopelessly
out of it because of low power, or lack of battery capacity.

Tom determined not to let the red or the green car gain any advantage
over him, and so he watched those two vehicles narrowly. On the other
hand, the red and the green electrics were evidently afraid of one
another and of Tom.

They all three kept pretty much together for the first thirty miles. By
this time the race had settled down into a steady grind. There was some
excitement when the steering gear of one car broke, and it crashed into
the fence, injuring the driver, but the race went on.

The young inventor was holding his own with his two chief rivals, and
was feeling rather proud of his car, when there came from it a report
like a pistol shot.

"Blow out!" yelled Tom desperately, steering to one of the several
repair stations on the inner side of the track. "Be ready with the
extra wheel, Mr. Sharp!"

"Right you are!" cried the balloonist. The car was scarcely stopped
when he had leaped out, and had the lifting jack under the left rear
wheel, where the tire had gone to the bad. He and Tom labored like
Trojans to take off the wheel, and put on the other. They lost five
minutes, and when they got under way again the red and the green cars
were three quarters of a lap ahead.

"You've got to catch them!" declared Sharp firmly.

But the red and the green car drivers saw their advantage, and were
determined to hold it. Tom could not catch them without going his
limit, and he did not want to do this just yet.  However, he had his
opportunity when about two hundred miles had been covered. Both the red
and the green cars had tire troubles, but the red one was delayed
scarcely two minutes as there was a corps of mechanics on hand to take
off the defective wheel and put on another. Still Tom regained his lost
ground, and once more the race between those three cars was even.

In the rear of Tom's car Mr. Sharp was mending the blown-out tire,
though there was still one spare wheel on reserve. Tom, in front,
peered eagerly at the track. Nearly side by side raced the red and the
green cars, the latter somewhat to the rear.

It was at the three hundred and fiftieth mile that Tom had another
blow-out. This time it took a little longer to change the wheel, and
the red and green cars gained a full lap on him. The track was now so
dusty that it was difficult to see the contesting cars. Many had
dropped out, and more were on the verge of giving up.

With the odds against him, Tom started in to regain the lost ground.
Narrowly he watched his electric power. Slowly he saw it dropping.
Would he have enough left to finish out the race? He feared not. The
hours were passing. Still there was a hundred miles yet to go twenty
circuits of the track. Some of the spectators were getting weary and
leaving. The band played spasmodically.

Suddenly Tom saw the red car shoot to one side of the track, toward a
charging station; The green car followed.

"That's our cue!" cried the young inventor "We need a little more
'juice' and now is the time to get it."

The lad ran to the shed where his charging wires were, and they were
connected in a trice. He allowed twenty-five minutes for the charging,
as he knew with his improved battery he could get enough current in
that time to finish the contest. Before the red and green car drivers
had finished installing new batteries, for they could not recharge as
quickly as could our hero, Tom was on the track again. But, in a little
while, his two rivals were after him.

It was now a spectacular race. Around and around swept the three big
cars. All the others were practically out of it. The crowd became
lively airs. Mile after mile was reeled off. The day was passing. Tired
and covered with dust from the track, Tom still sat at the steering
wheel.

"Two laps more!" cried Mr. Sharp, as the starter's pistol gave this
warning. "Can you get away from 'em, Tom?"

The red and the green cars were following closely. The young inventor
looked back and nodded. He turned on more power, almost to the
limit--that he was saving for the final spurt. But after him still came
the two big cars. Suddenly the red car shot ahead, just as the last lap
was beginning. The green tried to follow, but there was a flash of
fire, a loud report, and Tom knew a fuse had blown out. There was no
time for his rival to put in a new one. The race was now between Tom
and the red car. Could the lad catch and pass it?

They were now only a mile from the finish. The red car was three
lengths ahead. With a quick motion Tom turned on the last bit of power.
There seemed to come a roar from his motor and his car shot ahead. It
was on even terms with the red car when what Tom had been fearing for
the last five minutes happened: his fuse blew out.

"Too bad! It's all up with us!" cried Mr. Sharp.

"No!" cried Tom in a ringing voice. "I've got an emergency fuse ready!"
He snapped a switch in place, putting into commission another fuse. The
motor that had lost speed began to pick it up again. Tom had pulled
back the controller handle, but he now shoved it forward again, notch
by notch, until it was at the limit. He had fallen back from the red
car, and the occupants of that, with a yell of triumph, prepared to
cross the line a winner.

But, like a race horse that nerves himself for the last desperate
spurt, Tom's machine fairly leaped ahead. With his hands gripping the
rim of the steering wheel, until it seemed that the bones of his
fingers would protrude, Tom sent his car straight for the finishing
tape. There was a yell from the spectators. Men were standing up,
waving their hats and shouting.  Women were fairly screaming. Mr. Damon
was blessing everything within sight. Mr. Sharp, in his excitement, was
pushing on the back of the front seats as if to shove the car ahead.

Then, as the pistol announced the close of the race, Tom's car, with
what seemed a mighty leap, like a hunter clearing a ditch, forged
ahead, and crossed the line a length in advance of the red car. Tom
Swift had Won.

Amid the cheers of the crowd the lad slowed up, and, at the direction
of the judges, wheeled back to the stand, to receive the prize. A
certified check for three thousand dollars was handed him, and he
received the congratulations of the racing officials. The driver of the
red car also generously praised him.

"You won fair and square," he said, shaking hands with Tom.

The young inventor and his friends drove their car to their shed. As
Tom was descending, weary and begrimed with dust he heard a voice
asking:

"Mayn't I congratulate you also?"

He wheeled around, to confront Mary Nestor, immaculate in a summer gown.

"Why--why," he stammered. "I--I thought you didn't come."

"Oh, yes I did," she answered, laughing. "I wouldn't have missed it for
anything. I arrived late, but I saw the whole race.  Wasn't it
glorious. I'm so glad you won!"  Tom was too, now, but he shrank back
when Miss Nestor held out both daintily gloved hands to him. His hands
were covered with oil and dirt.

"As if I cared for my gloves!" she cried, and she took possession of
his hands, a proceeding to which Tom was nothing loath. "Are you going
to race any more?" she asked, as he walked along by her side, away from
the gathering crowd.

"I don't know," he replied. "My car is speedier than I thought it was.
Perhaps I may enter it in other contests."

But what Tom Swift did later on will be told in another volume, to be
called, "Tom Swift and His Wireless Message; or, The Castaways of
Earthquake Island"--a strange tale of ship-wreck and mystery.

The run back home was made without incident, save for a broken chain,
easily repaired, the day following the race, and Tom later received a
number of invitations to give exhibitions of speed.  Several automobile
manufacturers wanted to secure the rights to his machine, but he said
he desired to consider the matter before acting. He did not forget his
promise to Mrs. Baggert, regarding the diamond earrings, and bought her
the finest pair he could find.

"Come on, Mr. Sharp," proposed Tom, a week or so after the big race,
"let's go for a spin in the airship. I want to see how it feels to be
among the clouds once more," and they were soon soaring aloft.

The new bank, started by Mr. Foger, did not flourish long. It closed
its doors in less than six months, but the old institution was stronger
than ever. Mr. Berg disappeared, and Tom never learned whether the
agent really was the man he had chased, and whose watch charm he tore
loose, though he always had his suspicions. Nor did it ever develop who
crossed the electric wires, so that Tom was so nearly fatally shocked.
Andy Foger disliked our hero more than ever, and on several occasions
caused him not a little trouble, but Tom was able to look after himself.


THE END




TOM SWIFT AND HIS WIRELESS MESSAGE
OR
THE CASTAWAYS OF EARTHQUAKE ISLAND


BY VICTOR APPLETON

AUTHOR OF "TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR-CYCLE," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR
BOAT," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS AIRSHIP," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS SUBMARINE
BOAT," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS ELECTRIC RUNABOUT," ETC.

ILLUSTRATED




BOOKS BY VICTOR APPLETON

THE TOM SWIFT SERIES

TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR-CYCLE
 Or Fun and Adventures on the Road

TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR-BOAT
 Or the Rivals of Lake Carlopa

TOM SWIFT AND HIS AIRSHIP
 Or the Stirring Cruise of the Red Cloud

TOM SWIFT AND HIS SUBMARINE BOAT
 Or Under the Ocean for Sunken Treasure

TOM SWIFT AND HIS ELECTRIC RUNABOUT
 Or the Speediest Car on the Road

TOM SWIFT AND HIS WIRELESS MESSAGE
 Or the Castaways of Earthquake Island

TOM SWIFT AMONG THE DIAMOND MAKERS
 Or the Secret of Phantom Mountain

TOM SWIFT IN THE CAVES OF ICE
 Or the Wreck of the Airship

TOM SWIFT AND HIS SKY RACER
 Or the Quickest Flight on Record

TOM SWIFT AND HIS ELECTRIC RIFLE
 Or Daring Adventures in Elephant Land

(Other Volumes in Preparation)






TOM SWIFT AND HIS WIRELESS MESSAGE




CONTENTS

      I. AN APPEAL FOR AID
     II. MISS NESTOR'S NEWS
    III. TOM KNOCKS OUT ANDY
     IV. MR. DAMON WILL GO ALONG
      V. VOL-PLANING TO EARTH
     VI. THE NEW AIRSHIP
    VII. MAKING SOME CHANGES
   VIII. ANDY FOGER'S REVENGE
     IX. THE WHIZZER FLIES
      X. OVER THE OCEAN
     XI. A NIGHT OF TERROR
    XII. A DOWNWARD GLIDE
   XIII. ON EARTHQUAKE ISLAND
    XIV. A NIGHT IN CAMP
     XV. THE OTHER CASTAWAY
    XVI. AN ALARMING THEORY
   XVII. A MIGHTY SHOCK
  XVIII. MR. JENKS HAS DIAMONDS
    XIX. SECRET OPERATIONS
     XX. THE WIRELESS PLANT
    XXI. MESSAGES INTO SPACE
   XXII. ANXIOUS DAYS
  XXIII. A REPLY IN THE DARK
   XXIV. "WE ARE LOST!"
    XXV. THE RESCUE-CONCLUSION




CHAPTER I

AN APPEAL FOR AID


Tom Swift stepped from the door of the machine shop, where he was at
work making some adjustments to the motor of his airship, and
glanced down the road. He saw a cloud of dust, which effectually
concealed whatever was causing it.

"Some one must be in a hurry this morning," the lad remarked, "Looks
like a motor speeding along. MY! but we certainly do need rain," he
added, as he looked up toward the sky. "It's very dusty. Well, I may
as well get back to work. I'll take the airship out for a flight
this afternoon, if the wind dies down a bit."

The young inventor, for Tom Swift himself had built the airship, as
well as several other crafts for swift locomotion, turned to
re-enter the shop.

Something about the approaching cloud of dust, however, held his
attention. He glanced more intently at it.

"If it's an automobile coming along," he murmured, "it's moving very
slowly, to make so much fuss. And I never saw a motor-cycle that
would kick up as much sand, and not speed along more. It ought to be
here by now. I wonder what it can be?"

The cloud of highway dirt rolled along, making some progress toward
Tom's house and the group of shops and other buildings surrounding
it. But, as the lad had said, the dust did not move at all quickly
in comparison to any of the speedy machines that might be causing
it. And the cloud seemed momentarily to grow thicker and thicker.

"I wonder if it could be a miniature tornado, or a cyclone or
whirlwind?" and Tom spoke aloud, a habit of his when he was
thinking, and had no one to talk to. "Yet it can hardly be that." he
went on. "Guess I'll watch and see what it is."

Nearer and nearer came the dust cloud. Tom peered anxiously ahead, a
puzzled look on his face. A few seconds later there came from the
midst of the obscuring cloud a voice, exclaiming:

"G'lang there now, Boomerang! Keep to' feet a-movin' an' we sho'
will make a record. 'Tain't laik we was a autermobiler, er a
electricity car, but we sho' hab been goin' sence we started. Yo'
sho' done yo'se'f proud t'day, Boomerang, an' I'se gwine t' keep mah
promise an' gib yo' de bestest oats I kin find. Ah reckon Massa Tom
Swift will done say we brought dis yeah message t' him as quick as
anybody could."

Then there followed the sound of hoofbeats on the dusty road, and
the rattle of some many-jointed vehicle, with loose springs and
looser wheels.

"Eradicate Sampson!" exclaimed Tom. "But who would ever think that
the colored man's mule could get up such speed as that cloud of dust
indicates. His mule's feet must be working overtime, but he goes
backward about as often as he moves forward. That accounts for it.
There's lots of dust, but not much motion."

Once more, from the midst of the ball-like cloud of dirt came the
voice of the colored man:

"Now behave yo'se'f, Boomerang. We'm almost dere an' den yo' kin sit
down an' rest if yo' laik. Jest keep it up a little longer, an'
we'll gib Massa Tom his telephone. G'lang now, Boomerang."

The tattoo of hoofbeats was slowing up now, and the cloud of dust
was not so heavy. It was gradually blowing away. Tom Swift walked
down to the fence that separated the house, grounds and shops from
the road. As he got there the sounds of the mule's progress, and the
rattle of the wagon, suddenly ceased.

"G'lang! G'lang! Don't yo' dare t' stop now, when we am most dere!"
cried Eradicate Sampson. "Keep a-movin', Boomerang!"

"It's all right, Eradicate. I'm here," called Tom, and when the last
of the dust had blown away, the lad waved his hand to an aged
colored man, who sat upon the seat of perhaps the most dilapidated
wagon that was ever dignified by such a name. It was held together
with bits of wire, rope and strings, and each of the four wheels
leaned out at a different angle. It was drawn by a big mule, whose
bones seemed protruding through his skin, but that fact evidently
worried him but little, for now the animal was placidly sleeping,
while standing up, his long ears moving slowly to and fro.

"Am dat yo', Massa Tom?" asked Eradicate, ceasing his task of
jerking on the lines, to which operation the mule paid not the least
attention.

"Yes, I'm here, Rad," replied Tom, smiling. "I came out of my shop
to see what all the excitement was about. How did you ever get your
mule to make so much dust?"

"I done promise him an extra helpin' ob oats ef he make good time,"
said the colored man. "An' he done it, too. Did yo' see de dust we
made?"

"I sure did, but you didn't do much else. And you didn't make very
good time. I watched you, and you came along like an ice wagon after
a day's work on the Fourth of July. You were going fast, but moving
slow."

"I 'spects we was, Massa Tom," was the colored man's answer. "But
Boomerang done better dan I 'spected he would. I done tole him yo'd
be in a hurry t' git yo' telephone, an' he sho' did trot along."

"My telephone?" repeated Tom, wonderingly. "What have you and your
mule Boomerang to do with my telephone? That's up in the house."

"No, it ain't! it's right yeah in mah pocket," chuckled Eradicate,
opening a ragged coat, and reaching for something. "I got yo'
telephone right yeah." he went on. "De agent at de station see me
dribin' ober dis way, an' he done ast he t' deliber it. He said as
how he ain't got no messenger boy now, 'cause de one he done hab
went on a strike fo' five cents mo' a day. So I done took de
telephone," and with that the colored man pulled out a crumpled
yellow envelope.

"Oh, you mean a telegram," said Tom, with a laugh, as he took the
message from the odd colored man.

"Well, maybe it's telegraf, but I done understood de agent t' say
telephone. Anyhow, dere it is. An' I s'pects we'd better git along,
Boomerang."

The mule never moved, though Eradicate yanked on the reins, and used
a splintered whip with energy.

"I said as how we'd better git along, Boomerang," went on the
darkey, raising his voice, "Dinnah am mos' ready, an' I'm goin' t'
giv yo' an extra helpin' ob oats."

The effect of these words seemed magical. The mule suddenly came to
life, and was about to start off.

"I done thought dat would cotch yo', Boomerang," chuckled Eradicate.

"Wait a minute, Rad," called Tom, who was tearing open the envelope
of the telegram. "I might want to send an answer back by you. I
wonder who is wiring me now?"

He read the message slowly, and Eradicate remarked:

"'Taint no kind ob use, Massa Tom, fo' t' send a message back wif
me."

"Why not?" asked the young inventor, looking up from the sheet of
yellow paper.

"'Case as how I done promised Boomerang his airman, an' he won't do
nothin' till he has it. Ef I started him back t' town now he would
jest lay down in de road. I'll take de answer back fo' you dis
arternoon."

"All right, perhaps that will do," assented Tom. "I haven't quite
got the hang of this yet. Drop around this afternoon, Rad," and as
the colored man, who, with his mule Boomerang, did odd jobs around
the village, started off down the highway, in another cloud of dust,
Tom Swift resumed the reading of the message.

"Hum, this is rather queer," he mused, when having read it once, he
began at it again. "It must have cost him something to send all this
over the wire. He could just as well have written it. So he wants my
help, eh? Well, I never heard of him, and he may be all right, but I
had other plans, and I don't know whether I can spare the time to go
to Philadelphia or not. I'll have to think it over. An electric
airship, eh? He's sort of following along the lines of my
inventions. Wants my aid--hum--well, I don't know--"

Tom's musings were suddenly cut short by the approach of an elderly
gentleman, who was walking slowly down the path that led from the
house to the country highway which ran in front of it.

"A telegram, Tom?" asked the newcomer.

"Yes, dad," was the reply. "I was just coming in to ask your advice
about it. Eradicate brought it to me."

"What, with his mule, Boomerang?" and the gentleman seemed much
amused. "How did he ever get up speed enough to deliver a telegram?"

"Oh, Eradicate has some special means he uses on his mule when he's
in a hurry. But listen to this message, dad. It's from a Mr. Hosmer
Fenwick, of Philadelphia. He says:"

"'Tom Swift--Can you come on to Philadelphia at once and aid me in
perfecting my new electric airship? I want to get it ready for a
flight before some government experts who have promised to purchase
several if it works well. I am in trouble, and I can't get it to
rise off the ground. I need help. I have heard about your airship,
and the other inventions you and your father have perfected, and I
am sure you can aid me. I am stuck. Can you hurry to the Quaker
City? I will pay you well. Answer at once!'"

"Well?" remarked Mr. Swift, questioningly, as his son finished
reading the telegram. "What are you going to do about it, Tom?"

"I don't exactly know, dad. I was going to ask your advice. What
would you do? Who is this Mr. Fenwick?"

"Well, he is an inventor of some note, but he has had many failures.
I have not heard of him in some years until now. He is a gentleman
of wealth, and can be relied upon to do just as he says. We are
slightly acquainted. Perhaps it would be well to aid him, if you can
spare the time. Not that you need the money, but inventors should be
mutually helpful. If you feel like going to Philadelphia, and aiding
him in getting his electric airship in shape, you have my
permission."

"I don't know," answered Tom, doubtfully. "I was just getting my
monoplane in shape for a little flight. It was nothing particular,
though. Dad, I think I WILL take a run to Philadelphia, and see if I
can help Mr. Fenwick. I'll wire him that I am coming, to-morrow or
next day."

"Very well," assented Mr. Swift, and then he and his son went into
one of the shops, talking of a new invention which they were about
to patent.

Tom little knew what a strange series of adventures were to follow
his decision to go to the Quaker City, nor the danger involved in
aiding Mr. Fenwick to operate his electric airship.




CHAPTER II

MISS NESTOR'S NEWS


"When do you think you will go to Philadelphia, Tom?" asked Mr.
Swift, a little later, as the aged inventor and his son were looking
over some blueprints which Garret Jackson, an engineer employed by
them, had spread out on a table.

"I don't exactly know," was the answer. "It's quite a little run
from Shopton, because I can't get a through train. But I think I'll
start tomorrow."

"Why do you go by train?" asked Mr. Jackson.

"Why--er--because--" was Tom's rather hesitating reply. "How else
would I go?"

"Your monoplane would be a good deal quicker, and you wouldn't have
to change cars," said the engineer. "That is if you don't want to
take out the big airship. Why don't you go in the monoplane?"

"By Jove! I believe I will!" exclaimed Tom. "I never thought of
that, though it's a wonder I didn't. I'll not take the RED CLOUD, as
she's too hard to handle alone. But the BUTTERFLY will be just the
thing," and Tom looked over to where a new monoplane rested on the
three bicycle wheels which formed part of its landing frame. "I
haven't had it out since I mended the left wing tip," he went on,
"and it will also be a good chance to test my new rudder. I believe
I WILL go to Philadelphia by the BUTTERFLY."

"Well, as long as that's settled, suppose you give us your views on
this new form of storage battery," suggested Mr. Swift, with a fond
glance at his son, for Tom's opinion was considered valuable in
matters electrical, as those of you, who have read the previous
books in this series, well know.

The little group in the machine shop was soon deep in the discussion
of ohms, amperes, volts and currents, and, for a time, Tom almost
forgot the message calling him to Philadelphia.

Taking advantage of the momentary lull in the activities of the
young inventor, I will tell my readers something about him, so that
those who have no previous introduction to him may feel that he is a
friend.

Tom Swift lived with his father, Barton Swift, a widower, in the
village of Shopton, New York. There was also in the household Mrs.
Baggert, the aged housekeeper, who looked after Tom almost like a
mother. Garret Jackson, an engineer and general helper, also lived
with the Swifts.

Eradicate Sampson might also be called a retainer of the family, for
though the aged colored man and his mule Boomerang did odd work
about the village, they were more often employed by Tom and his
father than by any one else. Eradicate was so called because, as he
said, he "eradicated" the dirt. He did whitewashing, made gardens,
and did anything else that was needed. Boomerang was thus named by
his owner, because, as Eradicate said, "yo' nebber know jest what
dat mule am goin' t' do next. He may go forward or he may go
backward, jest laik them Australian boomerangs."

There was another valued friend of the family, Wakefield Damon by
name, to whom the reader will be introduced in due course. And then
there was Mary Nestor, about whom I prefer to let Tom tell you
himself, for he might be jealous if I talked too much about her.

In the first book of this series, called "Tom Swift and His Motor-Cycle,"
there was told how he became possessed of the machine, after
it had nearly killed Mr. Damon, who was learning to ride it. Mr.
Damon, who had a habit of "blessing" everything from his collar
button to his shoe laces, did not "bless" the motor-cycle after it
tried to climb a tree with him; and he sold it to Tom very cheaply.
Tom repaired it, invented some new attachments for it, and had a
number of adventures on it. Not the least of these was trailing
after a gang of scoundrels who tried to get possession of a valuable
patent model belonging to Mr. Swift.

Our second book, called "Tom Swift and His Motor-Boat," related some
exciting times following the acquisition by the young inventor of a
speedy craft which the thieves of the patent model had stolen. In
the boat Tom raced with Andy Foger, a town bully, and beat him. Tom
also took out on pleasure trips his chum, Ned Newton, who worked in
a Shopton bank, and the two had fine times together. Need I also say
that Mary Nestor also had trips in the motor-boat? Besides some other
stirring adventures in his speedy craft Tom rescued, from a burning
balloon that fell into the lake, the aeronaut, John Sharp. Later Mr.
Sharp and Tom built an airship, called the RED CLOUD, in which they
had some strenuous times.

Their adventures in this craft of the air form the basis for the
third book of the series, entitled "Tom Swift and His Airship." In
the RED CLOUD, Tom and his friends, including Mr. Damon, started to
make a record flight. They left Shopton the night when the bank
vault was blown open, and seventy-five thousand dollars stolen.

Because of evidence given by Andy Foger, and his father, suspicion
pointed to Tom and his friends as the robbers, and they were
pursued. But they turned the tables by capturing the real burglars,
and defeating the mean plans of the Fogers.

Not satisfied with having mastered the air Tom and his father turned
their attention to the water. Mr. Swift perfected a new type of
craft, and in the fourth book of the series, called "Tom Swift and
His Submarine," you may read how he went after a sunken treasure.
The party had many adventures, and were in no little danger from
their enemies before they reached the wreck with its store of gold.

The fifth book of the series, named "Tom Swift and His Electrical
Runabout," told how Tom built the speediest car on the road, and won
a prize with it, and also saved a bank from ruin.

Tom had to struggle against odds, not only in his inventive work,
but because of the meanness of jealous enemies, including Andy
Foger, who seemed to bear our hero a grudge of long standing. Even
though Tom had, more than once, thrashed Andy well, the bully was
always seeking a chance to play some mean trick on the young
inventor. Sometimes he succeeded, but more often the tables were
effectually turned.

It was now some time since Tom had won the prize in his electric car
and, in the meanwhile he had built himself a smaller airship, or,
rather, monoplane, named the BUTTERFLY. In it he made several
successful trips about the country, and gave exhibitions at numerous
aviation meets; once winning a valuable prize for an altitude
flight. In one trip he had met with a slight accident, and the
monoplane had only just been repaired after this when he received
the message summoning him to Philadelphia.

"Well, Tom," remarked his father that afternoon, "if you are going
to the Quaker City, to see Mr. Fenwick to-morrow, you'd better be
getting ready. Have you wired him that you will come?"

"No, I haven't, dad," was the reply. "I'll get a message ready at
once, and when Eradicate comes back I'll have him take it to the
telegraph office."

"I wouldn't do that, Tom."

"Do what?"

"Trust it to Eradicate. He means all right, but there's no telling
when that mule of his may lie down in the road, and go to sleep.
Then your message won't get off, and Mr. Fenwick may be anxiously
waiting for it. I wouldn't like to offend him, for, though he and I
have not met in some years, yet I would be glad if you could do him
a favor. Why not take the message yourself?"

"Guess I will, dad. I'll run over to Mansburg in my electric car,
and send the message from there. It will go quicker, and, besides, I
want to get some piano wire to strengthen the wings of my
monoplane."

"All right, Tom, and when you telegraph to Mr. Fenwick, give him my
regards, and say that I hope his airship will be a success. So it's
an electric one, eh? I wonder how it works? But you can tell me when
you come back."

"I will, dad. Mr. Jackson, will you help me charge the batteries of
my car? I think they need replenishing. Then I'll get right along to
Mansburg."

Mansburg was a good-sized city some miles from the village of
Shopton, and Tom and his father had frequent business there.

The young inventor and the engineer soon had the electric car in
readiness for a swift run, for the charging of the batteries could
be done in much less than the time usual for such an operation,
owing to a new system perfected by Tom. The latter was soon speeding
along the road, wondering what sort of an airship Mr. Fenwick would
prove to have, and whether or not it could be made to fly.

"It's easy enough to build an airship," mused Tom, "but the
difficulty is to get them off the ground, and keep them there." He
knew, for there had been several failures with his monoplane before
it rose like a bird and sailed over the tree-tops.

The lad was just entering the town, and had turned around a corner,
twisting about to pass a milk wagon, when he suddenly saw, darting
out directly in the path of his car, a young lady.

"Look out!" yelled Tom, ringing his electric gong, at the same time
shutting off the current, and jamming on the powerful brakes.

There was a momentary scream of terror from the girl, and then, as
she looked at Tom, she exclaimed:

"Why, Tom Swift! What are you trying to do? Run me down?"

"Mary--Miss Nestor!" ejaculated our hero, in some confusion.

He had brought his car to a stop, and had thrown open the door,
alighting on the crossing, while a little knot of curious people
gathered about.

"I didn't see you," went on the lad. "I came from behind the milk
wagon, and--"

"It was my fault," Miss Nestor hastened to add. "I, too, was waiting
for the milk wagon to pass, and when it got out of my way, I darted
around the end of it, without looking to see if anything else was
coming. I should have been more careful, but I'm so excited that I
hardly know what I'm doing."

"Excited? What's the matter?" asked Tom, for he saw that his friend
was not her usual calm self. "Has anything happened, Mary?"

"Oh, I've such news to tell you!" she exclaimed.

"Then get in here, and we'll go on." advised Tom. "We are collecting
a crowd. Come and take a ride; that is if you have time."

"Of course I have," the girl said, with a little blush, which Tom
thought made her look all the prettier. "Then we can talk. But where
are you going?"

"To send a message to a gentleman in Philadelphia, saying that I
will help him out of some difficulties with his new electric
airship. I'm going to take a run down there in my monoplane,
BUTTERFLY, to-morrow, and--"

"My! to hear you tell it, one would think it wasn't any more to make
an airship flight than it was to go shopping," interrupted Mary, as
she entered the electric car, followed by Tom, who quickly sent the
vehicle down the street.

"Oh, I'm getting used to the upper air," he said. "But what is the
news you were to tell me?"

"Did you know mamma and papa had gone to the West Indies?" asked the
girl.

"No! I should say that WAS news. When did they go? I didn't know
they intended to make a trip."

"Neither did they; nor I, either. It was very sudden. They sailed
from New York yesterday. Mr. George Hosbrook, a business friend of
papa's, offered to take them on his steam yacht, RESOLUTE. He is
making a little pleasure trip, with a party of friends, and he
thought papa and mamma might like to go."

"He wired to them, they got ready in a rush, caught the express to
New York, and went off in such a hurry that I can hardly realize it
yet. I'm left all alone, and I'm in such trouble!"

"Well, I should say that was news," spoke Tom.

"Oh, you haven't heard the worst yet," went on Mary. "I don't call
the fact that papa and mamma went off so suddenly much news. But the
cook just left unexpectedly, and I have invited a lot of girl
friends to come and stay with me, while mamma and papa are away; and
now what shall I do without a cook? I was on my way down to an
intelligence office, to get another servant, when you nearly ran me
down! Now, isn't that news?"

"I should say it was--two kinds," admitted Tom, with a smile. "Well,
I'll help you all I can. I'll take you to the intelligence office,
and if you can get a cook, by hook or by crook, I'll bundle her into
this car, and get her to your house before she can change her mind.
And so your people have gone to the West Indies?"

"Yes, and I wish I had the chance to go."

"So do I," spoke Tom, little realizing how soon his wish might be
granted. "But is there any particular intelligence office you wish
to visit?"

"There's not much choice," replied Mary Nestor, with a smile, "as
there's only one in town. Oh. I do hope I can get a cook! It would
be dreadful to have nothing to eat, after I'd asked the girls to
spend a month with me; wouldn't it?"

Tom agreed that it certainly would, and they soon after arrived at
the intelligence office.




CHAPTER III

TOM KNOCKS OUT ANDY


"Do you want me to come in and help you?" asked the young inventor,
of Miss Nestor.

"Do you know anything about hiring a cook?" she inquired, with an
arch smile.

"I'm afraid I don't," the lad was obliged to confess.

"Then I'm a little doubtful of your ability to help me. But I'm ever
so much obliged to you. I'll see if I can engage one. The cook who
just left went away because I asked her to make some apple
turnovers. Some of the girls who are coming are very fond of them."

"So am I," spoke Tom, with a smile.

"Are you, indeed? Then, if the cook I hope to get now will make
them, I'll invite you over to have some, and--also meet my friends."

"I'd rather come when just you, and the turnovers and the cook are
there," declared Tom, boldly, and Mary, with a blush, made ready to
leave the electric car.

"Thank you," she said, in a low voice.

"If I can't help you select a cook," went on Tom, "at least let me
call and take you home when you have engaged one."

"Oh, it will be too much trouble," protested Miss Nestor.

"Not at all. I have only to send a message, and get some piano wire,
and then I'll call back here for you. I'll take you and the new cook
back home flying."

"All right, but don't fly so fast. The cook may get frightened, and
leave before she has a chance to make an apple turnover."

"I'll go slower. I'll be back in fifteen minutes," called Tom, as he
swung the car out away from the curb, while Mary Nestor went into
the intelligence office.

Tom wrote and sent this message to Mr. Hostner Fenwick, of
Philadelphia:

"Will come on to-morrow in my aeroplane, and aid you all I can. Will
not promise to make your electric airship fly, though. Father sends
regards."

"Just rush that, please," he said to the telegraph agent, and the
latter, after reading it over, remarked:

"It'll rush itself, I reckon, being all about airships, and things
like that," and he laughed as Tom paid him.

Selecting several sizes of piano wire of great strength, to use as
extra guy-braces on the Butterfly, Tom re-entered his electric car,
and hastened back to the intelligence office, where he had left his
friend. He saw her standing at the front door, and before he could
alight, and go to her, Miss Nestor came out to meet him.

"Oh, Tom!" she exclaimed, with a little tragic gesture, "what do you
think?"

"I don't know," he answered good-naturedly. "Does the new cook
refuse to come unless you do away with apple turnovers?"

"No, it isn't that. I have engaged a real treasure, I'm sure, but as
soon as I mentioned that you would take us home in the electric
automobile, she flatly refused to come. She said walking was the
only way she would go. She hasn't been in this country long. But the
worst of it is that a rich woman has just telephoned in for a cook,
and if I don't get this one away, the rich lady may induce her to
come to her house, and I'll be without one! Oh, what shall I do?"
and poor Mary looked quite distressed.

"Humph! So she's afraid of electric autos; eh?" mused Tom. "That's
queer. Leave it to me, Mary, and perhaps I can fix it. You want to
get her away from here in a hurry; don't you?"

"Yes, because servants are so scarce, that they are engaged almost
as soon as they register at the intelligence office. I know the one
I have hired is suspicious of me, since I have mentioned your car,
and she'll surely go with Mrs. Duy Puyster when she comes. I'm sorry
I spoke of the automobile."

"Well, don't worry. It's partly my fault, and perhaps I can make
amends. I'll talk to the new cook," decided the young inventor.

"Oh, Tom, I don't believe it will do any good. She won't come, and
all my girl friends will arrive shortly." Miss Nestor was quite
distressed.

"Leave it to me," suggested the lad, with an assumed confidence he
did not feel. He left the car, and walked toward the office.
Entering it, with Miss Nestor in his wake, he saw a pleasant-faced
Irish girl, sitting on a bench, with a bundle beside her.

"And so you don't want to ride in an auto?" began Tom.

"No, an' it's no use of the likes of you askin' me, either,"
answered the girl, but not impudently. "I am afeered of thim things,
an' I won't work in a family that owns one."

"But we don't own one," said Mary.

The girl only sniffed.

"It is the very latest means of traveling," Tom went on, "and there
is absolutely no danger. I will drive slowly."

"No!" snapped the new cook.

Tom was rather at his wits' ends. At that moment the telephone rang,
and Tom and Mary, listening, could hear the proprietress of the
intelligence office talking to Mrs. Duy Puyster over the wire.

"We must get her away soon," whispered Mary, with a nod at the Irish
girl, "or we'll lose her."

Tom was thinking rapidly, but no plan seemed to come to him. A
moment later one of the assistants of the office led out from a rear
room another Irish girl,--who, it seems, had just engaged herself to
work in the country.

"Good-by, Bridget," said this girl, to the one Mary Nestor had
hired. "I'm off now. The carriage has just come for me. I'm goin'
away in style."

"Good luck, Sarah," wished Bridget.

Tom looked out of the window. A dilapidated farm wagon, drawn by two
rusty-looking horses, just drawing up at the curb.

"There is your employer, Sarah," said the proprietress of the
office. "You will have a nice ride to the country and I hope you
will like the place."

A typical country farmer alighted from the wagon, leaving a woman,
evidently his wife, or the seat. He called out:

"I'll git th' servant-gal, 'Mandy, an' we'll drive right out hum.
Then you won't have such hard work any more."

"An' so that's the style you was tellin' me of; eh, Sarah?" asked
the cook whom Miss Nestor had engaged. "That's queer style, Sarah."

Sarah was blushing from shame and mortification. Tom was quick to
seize the advantage thus offered.

"Bridget, if YOU appreciate style," he said, "you will come in the
automobile. I have one of the very latest models, and it is very
safe. But perhaps you prefer a farm wagon."

"Indade an' I don't!" was the ready response. "I'll go wid you now
if only to show Sarah Malloy thot I have more style than her! She
was boastin' of the fine place she had, an' th' illigant carriage
that was comin' t' take her to the counthry. If that's it I want
none of it! I'll go wid you an' th' young gintleman. Style indade!"
and, gathering up her bundle she followed Tom and Mary to the
waiting auto.

They entered it and started off, just as Mrs. Duy Puyster drove up
in her elegantly appointed carriage, while Sarah, with tears of
mortification in her eyes, climbed up beside the farmer and his
wife.

"You saved the day for me, Tom," whispered Miss Nestor, as the young
inventor increased the speed of his car. "It was only just in time."

"Don't forget the apple turnovers," he whispered back.

Once she had made the plunge, the new cook seemed to lose her fears
of the auto, and enjoyed the ride. In a short time she had been
safely delivered at Miss Nestor's home, while that young lady
repeated her thanks to Tom, and renewed her invitation for him to
come and sample the apple turnovers, which Tom promised faithfully
to do, saying he would call on his return from Philadelphia.

Musing on the amusing feature of his trip, Tom was urging his auto
along at moderate speed, when, as he turned down a country road,
leading to his home, he saw, coming toward him, a carriage, drawn by
a slow-moving, white horse, and containing a solitary figure.

"Why, that looks like Andy Foger," spoke Tom, half aloud. "I wonder
what he's doing out driving? His auto must be out of commission. But
that's not strange, considering the way he abuses the machine. It's
in the repair shop half the time."

He slowed down still more, for he did not know but that Andy's horse
might be skittish. He need have no fears, however, for the animal
did not seem to have much more life than did Eradicate's mule,
Boomerang.

As Tom came nearer the carriage, he was surprised to see Andy
deliberately swing his horse across the road, blocking the highway
by means of the carriage and steed.

"Well, Andy Foger, what does that mean?" cried Tom, indignantly, as
he brought his car to a sudden stop. "Why do you block the road?"

"Because I want to," snarled the bully, taking out a notebook and
pencil, and pretending to make some notes about the property in
front of which he had halted. "I'm in the real estate business now,"
went on Andy, "and I'm getting descriptions of the property I'm
going to sell. Guess I've got a right to stop in the road if I want
to!"

"But not to block it up," retorted Tom. "That's against the law.
Pull over and let me pass!"

"Suppose I don't do it?"

"Then I'll make you!"

"Huh! I'd like to see you try it!" snapped Andy. "If you make
trouble for me, it will be the worse for you."

"If you pull to one side, so I can pass, there'll be no trouble,"
said Tom, seeing that Andy wished to pick a quarrel.

"Well, I'm not going to pull aside until I finish putting down this
description," and the bully continued to write with tantalizing
slowness.

"Look here!" exclaimed Tom Swift, with sudden energy. "I'm not going
to stand for this! Either you pull to one side and let me pass, or--"

"Well, what will you do?" demanded the bully.

"I'll shove you to one side, and you can take the consequences!"

"You won't dare to!"

"I won't, eh? Just you watch."

Tom threw forward the lever of his car. There was a hum of the
motor, and the electric moved ahead. Andy had continued to write in
the book, but at this sound he glanced up.

"Don't you dare to bunk into me!" yelled Andy. "If you do I'll sue
you for damages!"

"Get out of the way, or I'll shove you off the road!" threatened
Tom, calmly.

"I'll not go until I get ready."

"Oh, yes you will," responded our hero quietly. He sent his car
ahead slowly but surely. It was within a few feet of the carriage
containing Andy. The bully had dropped his notebook, and was shaking
his fist at Tom.

As for the young inventor he had his plans made. He saw that the
horse was a quiet, sleepy one, that would not run away, no matter
what happened, and Tom only intended to gently push the carriage to
one side, and pass on.

The front of his auto came up against the other vehicle.

"Here, you stop!" cried Andy, savagely.

"It's too late now," answered Tom, grimly.

Andy reached for the horsewhip. Tom put on a little more power, and
the carriage began to slide across the road, but the old horse never
opened his eyes.

"Take that!" cried Andy, raising his whip, with the intention of
slashing Tom across the face, for the front of the auto was open.
But the blow never fell, for, the next instant, the carriage gave a
lurch as one of the wheels slid against a stone, and, as Andy was
standing up, and leaning forward, he was pitched head first out into
the road.

"By Jove! I hope I haven't hurt him!" gasped Tom, as he leaped from
his auto, which he had brought to a stop.

The young inventor bent over the bully. There was a little cut on
Andy's forehead, and his face was white. He had been most
effectually knocked out entirely by his own meanness and fault, but,
none the less, Tom was frightened. He raised up Andy's head on his
arm, and brushed back his hair. Andy was unconscious.




CHAPTER IV

MR. DAMON WILL GO ALONG


At first Tom was greatly frightened at the sight of Andy's pale
face. He feared lest the bully might be seriously hurt. But when he
realized that the fall from the carriage, which was a low one, was
not hard, and that Andy had landed on his outstretched hands before
his head came in contact with the earth, our hero was somewhat
reassured.

"I wish I had some water, with which to bathe his head," Tom
murmured, and he looked about in vain for some. But it was not
needed, for, a moment later, Andy opened his eyes, and, when he saw
Tom bending over, and holding him, the bully exclaimed:

"Here! You let me go! Don't you hit me again, Tom Swift, or I'll
punch you!"

"I didn't hit you," declared Tom, while Andy tore himself away, and
struggled to his feet.

"Yes, you did, too, hit me!"

"I did not! You tried to strike me with your whip, as I was shoving
your carriage out of the way, which I had a perfect right to do, as
you were blockading the highway. You lost your balance and fell. It
was your own fault."

"Well, you'll suffer for it, just the same, snarled Andy, and then,
putting his hand to his head, and bringing it away, with some drops
of blood on it, he cried out:"

"Oh, I'm hurt! I'm injured! Get a doctor, or maybe I'll bleed to
death!" He began blubbering, for Andy, like all bullies, was a
coward.

"You're not hurt," asserted Tom, trying not to laugh. "It's only a
scratch. Next time don't try to blockade the whole street, and you
won't get into trouble. Are you able to drive home; or shall I take
you in my car?"

"I wouldn't ride in your car!" snapped the ugly lad. "You go on, and
mind your business now, and I'll pay you back for this, some day. I
could have you arrested!"

"And so could I have you locked up for obstructing traffic. But I'll
not. Your rig isn't damaged, and you'd better drive home."

The old white horse had not moved, and was evidently glad of the
rest. A glance satisfied Tom that the carriage had not been damaged,
and, getting into his car, while Andy was brushing the dust from his
clothes, our hero started the motor.

There was now room enough to pass around the obstructing carriage,
and soon Tom was humming down the road, leaving a much discomfited
bully behind him.

"Tom Swift is too smart--thinking he can run everybody, and
everything, to suit himself," growled Andy, as he finished dusting
off his clothes, and wiping the blood from his face. As Tom had
said, the wound was but a scratch, though the bully's head ached,
and he felt a little dizzy. "I wish I'd hit him with the horsewhip,"
he went on, vindictively. "I'll get square with him some day."

Andy had said this many times, but he had never yet succeeded in
permanently getting the best of Tom. Pondering on some scheme of
revenge the rich lad--for Mr. Foger, his father, was quite
wealthy--drove on.

Meanwhile Tom, rather wishing the little encounter had not taken
place, but refusing to blame himself for what had occurred, was
speeding toward home.

"Let's see," he murmured, as he drove along in his powerful car.
"I've got quite a lot to do if I make an early start for
Philadelphia, in my airship, to-morrow. I want to tighten the
propeller on the shaft a trifle, and give the engine a good try-out.
Then, too, I think I'd better make the landing springs a little
stiffer. The last time I made a descent the frame was pretty well
jarred up. Yes, if I make that air trip to-morrow I'll have to do
some tall hustling when I get home."

The electric runabout swung into the yard of the Swift house, and
Tom brought it to a stop opposite the side door. He looked about for
a sight of his father, Mrs. Baggert or Garret Jackson. The only
person visible was Eradicate Sampson, working in the garden.

"Hello, Rad," called Tom. "Anybody home?"

"Yais, Massa Tom," answered the colored man. "Yo' dad an' anodder
gen'mans hab jest gone in de house."

"Who's the other gentleman, Rad?" asked Tom, and the negro, glad of
an excuse to cease the weeding of the onion bed, came shuffling
forward.

"It's de gen'mans what is allers saying his prayers," he answered.

"Saying his prayers?" repeated Tom.

"Yep. Yo' knows what I means, Massa Tom. He's allers askin' a
blessin' on his shoes, or his rubbers, or his necktie."

"Oh, you mean Mr. Wakefield Damon."

"Yais, sah, dat's who I done means. Mr. Wakefull Lemon--dat's sho'
him."

At that moment there sounded, within the house, the voices of Mr.
Swift, and some one else in conversation.

"And so Tom has decided to make a run to the Quaker City in the
BUTTERFLY, to-morrow," Mr. Swift was saying, "and he's going to see
if he can be of any service to this Mr. Fenwick."

"Bless my watch chain!" exclaimed the other voice. "You don't say
so! Why I know Mr. Fenwick very well--he and I used to go to school
together, but bless my multiplication tables--I never thought he'd
amount to anything! And so he's built an airship; and Tom is going
to help him with it? Why, bless my collar button, I've a good notion
to go along and see what happens. Bless my very existence, but I
think I will!"

"That's Mr. Damon all right," observed Tom, with a smile, as he
advanced toward the dining-room, whence the voices proceeded.

"Dat's what I done tole you!" said Eradicate, and, with slow and
lagging steps he went back to weed the onion bed.

"How are you, Mr. Damon," called our hero, as he mounted the steps
of the porch.

"Why, it's Tom--he's back!" exclaimed the eccentric man. "Why, bless
my shoe laces, Tom! how are you? I'm real glad to see you. Bless my
eyeglasses, but I am! I just returned from a little western trip,
and I thought I'd rUn over and see how you are. I came in my car--had
two blowouts on the way, too. Bless my spark plug, but the kind
of tires one gets now-a-days are a disgrace! However, I'm here, and
your father has just told me about you going to Philadelphia in your
monoplane, to help a fellow-inventor with his airship. It's real
kind of you. Bless my topknot if it isn't! Do you know what I was
just saying?"

"I heard you mention that you knew Mr. Fenwick," replied Tom, with a
smile, as he shook hands with Mr. Damon.

"So I do, and, what's more, I'd like to see his airship. Will your
BUTTERFLY carry two passengers?"

"Easily, Mr. Damon."

"Then I'll tell you what I'm going to do. If you'll let me I'll take
that run to Philadelphia with you!"

"Glad to have you come along," responded Tom, heartily.

"Then I'll go, and, what's more, if Fenwick's ship will rise, I'll
go with you in that--bless my deflection rudder if I don't, Tom!"
and puffing up his cheeks, as he exploded these words, Mr. Damon
fairly raised himself on his tiptoes, and shook Tom's hand again.




CHAPTER V

VOL-PLANING TO EARTH


For a moment after Mr. Damon's announcement Tom did not reply. Mr.
Swift, too, seemed a little at a loss for something to say. They did
not quite know how to take their eccentric friend at times.

"Of course I'll be glad of your company, Mr. Damon," said Tom: "but
you must remember that my BUTTERFLY is not like the RED CLOUD. There
is more danger riding in the monoplane than there is in the airship.
In the latter, if the engine happens to stop, the sustaining gas
will prevent us from falling. But it isn't so in an aeroplane. When
your engine stops there--"

"Well, what happens?" asked Mr. Damon, impatiently, for Tom
hesitated.

"You have to vol-plane back to earth."

"Vol-plane?" and there was a questioning note in Mr. Damon's voice.

"Yes, glide down from whatever height you are at when the engine
stalls. Come down in a series of dips from the upper currents.
Vol-planing, the French call it, and I guess it's as good a word as
any."

"Have you ever done it?" asked the odd character.

"Oh, yes, several times."

"Then, bless my fur overcoat! I can do it, too, Tom. When will you
be ready to start?"

"To-morrow morning. Now you are sure you won't get nervous and want
to jump, if the engine happens to break down?"

"Not a bit of it. I'll vol-plane whenever you are ready," and Mr.
Damon laughed.

"Well, we'll hope we won't have to," went on Tom. "And I'll be very
glad of your company. Mr. Fenwick will, no doubt, be pleased to see
you. I've never met him, and it will be nice to have some one to
introduce me. Suppose you come out and see what sort of a craft you
are doomed to travel in to-morrow, Mr. Damon. I believe you never
saw my new monoplane."

"That's right, I haven't, but I'd be glad to. I declare, I'm getting
to be quite an aviator," and Mr. Damon chuckled. A little later,
Tom, having informed his father of the sending of the message, took
his eccentric friend out to the shop, and exhibited the BUTTERFLY.

As many of you have seen the ordinary monoplane, either on
exhibition or in flight, I will not take much space to describe
Tom's. Sufficient to say it was modeled after the one in which
Bleriot made his first flight across the English channel.

The body was not unlike that of a butterfly or dragon fly, long and
slender, consisting of a rectangular frame with canvas stretched
over it, and a seat for two just aft of the engine and controlling
levers. Back of the seat stretched out a long framework, and at the
end was a curved plane, set at right angles to it. The ends of the
plane terminated in flexible wings, to permit of their being bent up
or down, so as to preserve the horizontal equilibrium of the craft.

At the extreme end was the vertical rudder, which sent the monoplane
to left or right.

Forward, almost exactly like the front set of wings of the dragon
fly, was the large, main plane, with the concave turn toward the
ground. There was the usual propeller in front, operated by a four
cylinder motor, the cylinders being air cooled, and set like the
spokes of a wheel around the motor box. The big gasolene tank, and
other mechanism was in front of the right-hand operator's seat,
where Tom always rode. He had seldom taken a passenger up with him,
though the machine would easily carry two, and he was a little
nervous about the outcome of the trip with Mr. Damon.

"How do you like the looks of it?" asked the young inventor, as he
wheeled the BUTTERFLY out of the shed, and began pumping up the
tires of the bicycle wheels on which it ran over the ground, to get
impetus enough with which to rise.

"It looks a little frail, compared to the big RED CLOUD, Tom,"
answered the eccentric man, "but I'm going up in her just the same;
bless my buttons if I'm not."

Tom could not but admire the grit of his friend.

The rest of the day was busily spent making various adjustments to
the monoplane, putting on new wire stays, changing the rudder
cables, and tuning up the motor. The propeller was tightened on the
shaft, and toward evening Tom announced that all was in readiness
for a trial flight.

"Want to come, Mr. Damon?" he asked.

"I'll wait, and see how it acts with you aboard," was the answer.
"Not that I'm afraid, for I'm going to make the trip in the morning,
but perhaps it won't work just right now."

"Oh, I guess it will," ventured Tom, and in order to be able to know
just how his BUTTERFLY was going to behave, with a passenger of Mr.
Damon's weight, the young inventor placed a bag of sand on the extra
seat.

The monoplane was then wheeled to the end of the starting ground.
Tom took his place in the seat, and Mr. Jackson started the
propeller. At first the engine failed to respond, but suddenly with
a burst of smoke, and a spluttering of fire the cylinders began
exploding. The hat of Mr. Damon, who was standing back of the
machine, was blown off by the wind created by the propeller.

"Bless my gaiters!" he exclaimed, "I never thought it was as strong
as that!"

"Let go!" cried Tom to Mr. Jackson and Eradicate, who were holding
back the monoplane from gliding over the ground.

"All right," answered the engineer.

An instant later the explosions almost doubled, for Tom turned on
more gasolene. Then, like some live thing, the BUTTERFLY rushed
across the starting ground. Faster and faster it went, until the
young inventor, knowing that he had motion enough, tilted his planes
to catch the wind.

Up he went from earth, like some graceful bird, higher and higher,
and then, in a big spiral, he began ascending until he was five
hundred feet in the air. Up there he traveled back and forth, in
circles, and in figure eights, desiring to test the machine in
various capacities.

Suddenly the engine stopped, and to those below, anxiously watching,
the silence became almost oppressive, for Tom had somewhat
descended, and the explosions had been plainly heard by those
observing him. But now they ceased!

"His engine's stalled!" cried Garret Jackson.

Mr. Swift heard the words, and looked anxiously up at his son.

"Is he in any danger?" gasped Mr. Damon.

No one answered him. Like some great bird, disabled in mid flight,
the monoplane swooped downward. A moment later a hearty shout from
Tom reassured them.

"He shut off the engine on purpose," said Mr. Jackson. "He is
vol-planing back to earth!"

Nearer and nearer came the BUTTERFLY. It would shoot downward, and
then, as Tom tilted the planes, would rise a bit, losing some of the
great momentum. In a series of maneuvers like this, the young
inventor reached the earth, not far from where his father and the
others stood. Down came the BUTTERFLY, the springs of the wheel
frame taking the shock wonderfully well.

"She's all right--regular bird!" cried Tom, in enthusiasm, when the
machine had come to a stop after rolling over the ground, and he had
leaped out. "We'll make a good flight to-morrow, Mr. Damon, if the
weather holds out this way."

"Good!" cried the eccentric man. "I shall be delighted."

They made the start early the next morning, there being hardly a
breath of wind. There was not a trace of nervousness noticeable
about Mr. Damon, as he took his place in the seat beside Tom. The
lad had gone carefully over the entire apparatus, and had seen to it
that, as far as he could tell, it was in perfect running order.

"When will you be back, Tom?" asked his father.

"To-night, perhaps, or to-morrow morning. I don't know just what Mr.
Fenwick wants me to do. But if it is anything that requires a long
stay, I'll come back, and let you know, and then run down to
Philadelphia again. I may need some of my special tools to work
with. I'll be back to-night perhaps."

"Shall I keep supper for you?" asked Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper.

"I don't know," answered Tom, with a laugh. "Perhaps I'll drop down
at Miss Nestor's, and have some apple turnovers," for he had told
them or the incident of hiring the new cook. "Well," he went on to
Mr. Damon, "are you all ready?"

"As ready as I ever shall be. Do you think we'll have to do any
vol-planing, Tom?"

"Hard to say, but it's not dangerous when there's no wind. All
right, Garret. Start her off."

The engineer whirled the big wooden, built-up propeller, and with a
rattle and roar of the motor, effectually drowning any but the
loudest shouts, the BUTTERFLY was ready for her flight. Tom let the
engine warm up a bit before calling to his friends to let go, and
then, when he had thrown the gasolene lever forward, he shouted a
good-by and cried:

"All right! Let go!"

Forward, like a hound from the leash, sprang the little monoplane.
It ran perhaps for five hundred feet, and then, with a tilting of
the wings, to set the air currents against them, it sprang into the
air.

"We're off!" cried Mr. Damon, waving his hand to those on the ground
below.

"Yes, we're off," murmured Tom. "Now for the Quaker City!"

He had mapped out a route for himself the night before, and now,
picking out the land-marks, he laid as straight a course as possible
for Philadelphia.

The sensation of flying along, two thousand feet high, in a machine
almost as frail as a canoe, was not new to Tom. It was, in a degree,
to Mr. Damon, for, though the latter had made frequent trips in the
large airship, this mode of locomotion, as if he was on the back of
some bird, was much different. Still, after the first surprise, he
got used to it.

"Bless my finger ring!" he exclaimed, "I like it!"

"I thought you would," said Tom, in a shout, and he adjusted the oil
feed to send more lubricant into the cylinders.

The earth stretched out below them, like some vari-colored relief
map, but they could not stop to admire any particular spot long, for
they were flying fast, and were beyond a scene almost as quickly as
they had a glimpse of it.

"How long will it take us?" yelled Mr. Damon into Tom's ear.

"I hope to do it in three hours," shouted back the young inventor.

"What! Why it takes the train over five hours."

"Yes, I know, but we're going direct, and it's only about two
hundred and fifty miles. That's only about eighty an hour. We're
doing seventy-five now, and I haven't let her out yet."

"She goes faster than the RED CLOUD," cried Mr. Damon.

Tom nodded. It was hard work to talk in that rush of air. For an
hour they shot along, their speed gradually increasing. Tom called
out the names of the larger places they passed over. He was now
doing better than eighty an hour as the gage showed. The trip was a
glorious one, and the eyes of the young inventor and his friend
sparkled in delight as they rushed forward. Two hours passed.

"Going to make it?" fairly howled Mr. Damon.

Tom nodded again.

"Be there in time for dinner," he announced in a shout.

It lacked forty minutes of the three hours when Tom, pointing with
one hand down below, while with the other he gripped the lever of
the rudder, called:

"North Philadelphia!"

"So soon?" gasped Mr. Damon. "Well, we certainly made speed! Where
are you going to land?"

"I don't know," answered the young inventor, "I'll have to pick out
the best place I see. It's no fun landing in a city. No room to run
along, after you're down."

"What's the matter with Franklin Field?" cried Mr. Damon. "Out where
they play football."

"Good! The very thing!" shouted Tom.

"Mr. Fenwick lives near there," went on Mr. Damon, and Tom nodded
comprehendingly.

They were now over North Philadelphia, and, in a few minutes more
were above the Quaker City itself. They were flying rather low, and
as the people in the streets became aware of their presence there
was intense excitement. Tom steered for the big athletic field, and
soon saw it in the distance.

With a suddenness that was startling the motor ceased its terrific
racket. The monoplane gave a sickening dip, and Tom had to adjust
the wing tips and rudder quickly to prevent it slewing around at a
dangerous angle.

"What's the matter?" cried Mr. Damon, "Did you shut it off on
purpose?"

"No!" shouted Tom, "Something's gone wrong!"

"Gone wrong! Bless my overshoes! Is there any danger?"

"We'll have to vol-plane to earth," answered Tom, and there was a
grim look on his face. He had never executed this feat with a
passenger aboard. He was wondering how the BUTTERFLY would behave.
But he would know very soon, for already the tiny monoplane was
shooting rapidly toward the big field, which was now swarming with a
curious crowd.




CHAPTER VI

THE NEW AIRSHIP


For a brief instant after the stopping of the motor, and the
consequent sudden dropping toward the earth of the monoplane, Tom
glanced at Mr. Damon. The latter's face was rather pale, but he
seemed calm and collected. His lips moved slightly, and Tom, even in
those tense moments, wondered if the odd gentleman was blessing
anything in particular, or everything in general.

Tom threw up the tilting plane, to catch more air beneath it, and
bring the BUTTERFLY in a more parallel position to the earth. This,
in a manner, checked the downward flight, and they glided along
horizontally for a hundred feet or more.

"Is--is there any great danger, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I think not," answered the young inventor, confidently. "I have
done this same thing before, and from greater heights. The only
thing that bothers me is that there are several cross-currents of
air up here, which make it difficult to manage the planes and wing
tips. But I think we'll make a good landing."

"Bless my overcoat!" exclaimed Mr. Damon "I certainly hope so."

Conversation was more easily carried on now, as the motor was not
spitting fire and throbbing like a battery of Gatling guns. Tom
thought perhaps it might start on the spark, as the propeller was
slowly swinging from the force of air against it. He tried, but
there was no explosion. He had scarcely hoped for it, as he realized
that some part of the mechanism must have broken.

Down they glided, coming nearer and nearer to the earth. The crowd
in the big athletic field grew larger. Shouts of wonder and fear
could be heard, and people could be seen running excitedly about. To
Tom and Mr. Damon they looked like dolls.

Reaching the limit of the parallel glide the monoplane once more
shot down on an incline toward the earth with terrible speed. The
ground seemed to rush up to meet Mr. Damon.

"Look out!" he cried to Tom. "We're going to hit something!"

"Not yet," was the calm answer "I'm going to try a new stunt. Hold
fast!"

"What are you going to do?"

"Some spirals. I think that will let us down easier, but the craft
is likely to tilt a bit, so hold on."

The young inventor shifted the movable planes and rudder, and, a
moment later, the BUTTERFLY swung violently around, like a polo pony
taking a sudden turn after the ball. Mr. Damon slid to one side of
his seat, and made a frantic grab for one of the upright supports.

"I made too short a turn!" cried Tom, easing off the craft, which
righted itself in an instant. "The air currents fooled me."

Under his skillful guidance, the monoplane was soon slowly
approaching the earth in a series of graceful curves. It was under
perfect control, and a smile of relief came on the face of the young
inventor. Seeing it Mr. Damon took courage, and his hands, which had
grasped the uprights with such firmness that his knuckles showed
white with the strain, were now removed. He sat easily in his seat.

"We're all right now," declared Tom. "I'll take a couple of forward
glides now, and we'll land."

He sent the machine straight ahead. It gathered speed in an instant.
Then, with an upward tilt it was slackened, almost as if brakes had
been applied. Once more it shot toward the earth, and once more it
was checked by an up-tilted plane.

Then with a thud which shook up the occupants of the two seats, the
BUTTERFLY came to the ground, and ran along on the three bicycle
wheels. Swiftly it slid over the level ground. A more ideal landing
place would have been hard to find. Scores of willing hands reached
out, and checked the momentum of the little monoplane, and Tom and
Mr. Damon climbed from their seats.

The crowd set up a cheer, and hundreds pressed around the aviators.
Several sought to reach, and touch the machine, for they had
probably never been so close to one before, though airship flights
are getting more and more common.

"Where did you come from?"

"Are you trying for a record?"

"How high did you get?"

"Did you fall, or come down on purpose?"

"Can't you start your motor in mid-air?"

These, and scores of other questions were fairly volleyed at Tom and
Mr. Damon. The young inventor good-naturedly answered them as best
he could.

"We were coming down anyhow," he explained, "but we did not
calculate on vol-planing. The motor was stalled, and I had to glide.
Please keep away from the machine. You might damage it."

The arrival of several policemen, who were attracted by the crowd,
served to keep the curious ones back away from the BUTTERFLY, or the
men, boys and women (for there were a number of the latter in the
throng) might have caused serious trouble.

Tom made a hasty examination of the motor, and, having satisfied
himself that only a minor difficulty had caused it to stop, he
decided to put the monoplane in some safe place, and proceed to Mr.
Fenwick's house.

The lad was just asking one of the officers if the air craft could
not be put in one of the grandstands which surrounded the field,
when a voice on the outskirts of the crowd excitedly exclaimed:

"Let me pass, please. I want to see that airship. I'm building one
myself, and I need all the experience I can get. Let me in, please."

A man pushed his way into the crowd, and wormed his way to where Tom
and Mr. Damon stood. At the sight of him, the eccentric individual
cried out:

"Why bless my pocket-knife! If it isn't Mr. Fenwick!"

"Mr. Fenwick?" gasped Tom.

"Yes. The inventor we came to see!"

At the same moment the newcomer cried out:

"Wakefield Damon!"

"That's who I am," answered Tom's friend, "and let me introduce you
to Mr. Swift, the inventor of more machines than I can count. He and
I were coming to see you, when we had a slight accident, and we
landed here. But that didn't matter, for we intended to land here
anyhow, as I knew it was near your house. Only we had to vol-plane
back to earth, and I can't say that I'd care for that, as a steady
diet. Bless my radiator, but I'm glad we've arrived safely."

"Did you come all the way from your home in that?" asked Mr. Fenwick
of Tom, as he shook hands with him, and nodded at the monoplane.

"Oh, yes. It's not much of a trip."

"Well, I hope my airship will do as well. But something seems to be
wrong with it, and I have hopes that you can help me discover what
it is, I know your father, and I have heard much of your ability.
That is why I requested your aid."

"I'm afraid I've been much overrated," spoke Tom, modestly, "but
I'll do all I can for you. I must now leave my monoplane in a safe
place, however."

"I'll attend to that," Mr. Fenwick hastened to assure him. "Leave it
to me."

By this time a lieutenant of police, in charge of several reserve
officers, had arrived on the scene, for the crowd was now very
large, and, as Mr. Fenwick knew this official, he requested that
Tom's machine be protected from damage. It was arranged that it
could be stored in a large, empty shed, and a policeman would be
left on guard. Then, seeing that it was all right, Tom, Mr. Damon
and Mr. Fenwick started for the latter's house.

"I am very anxious to show you the WHIZZER," said Mr. Fenwick, as
they walked along.

"The WHIZZER?" repeated Tom, wonderingly.

"Yes, that's what I call my electric airship. It hasn't 'whizzed'
any to speak of yet, but I have hopes that it will, now that you are
here to help me. We will take one of these taxicabs, and soon be at
my house. I was out for a stroll, when I saw your monoplane coming
down, and I hastened to Franklin Field to see it."

The three entered an automobile, and were soon being driven to the
inventor's home. A little later he led them out to a big shed which
occupied nearly all of a large lot, in back of Mr. Fenwick's house.

"Does it take up all that room?" asked Tom.

"Oh, yes, the WHIZZER is pretty good size. There she is!" cried Mr.
Fenwick proudly, as he threw open the doors of the shed, and Tom and
Mr. Damon, looking in, saw a large triplane, with a good-sized gas
bag hovering over it, and a strange collection of rudders, wings and
planes sticking out from either side. Amidships was an enclosed car,
or cabin, and a glimpse into it served to disclose to the young
inventor a mass of machinery.

"There she is! That's the WHIZZER!" cried Mr. Fenwick, with pride in
his voice. "What do you think of her, Tom Swift?"

Tom did not immediately answer. He looked dubiously at the electric
airship and shrugged his shoulders. It seemed to him, at first
glance, that, it would never sail.




CHAPTER VII

MAKING SOME CHANGES


"Well, what do you think of it?" asked Mr. Fenwick again, as Tom
walked all about the electric airship, still without speaking.

"It's big, certainly," remarked the lad.

"Bless my shoe horn! I should say it was!" burst out Mr. Damon.
"It's larger than your RED CLOUD, Tom."

"But will it go? That's what I want to know," insisted the inventor.
"Do you think it will fly, Tom? I haven't dared to try it yet,
though a small model which I made floated in the air for some time.
But it wouldn't move, except as the wind blew it."

"It would be hard to say, without a careful examination, whether
this large one will fly or not," answered Tom.

"Then give it a careful examination," suggested Mr. Fenwick. "I'll
pay you well for your time and trouble."

"Oh if I can help a fellow inventor, and assist in making a new
model of airship fly, I'm only too glad to do it without pay,"
retorted Tom, quickly. "I didn't come here for that. Suppose we go
in the cabin, and look at the motor. That's the most important
point, if your airship is to navigate."

There was certainly plenty of machinery in the cabin of the WHIZZER.
Most of it was electrical, for on that power Mr. Fenwick intended to
depend to sail through space. There was a new type of gasolene
engine, small but very powerful, and this served to operate a
dynamo. In turn, the dynamo operated an electrical motor, as Mr.
Fenwick had an idea that better, and more uniform, power could be
obtained in this way, than from a gasolene motor direct. One
advantage which Tom noticed at once, was that the WHIZZER had a
large electric storage battery.

This was intended to operate the electric motor in case of a break
to the main machinery, and it seemed a good idea. There were various
other apparatuses, machines, and appliances, the nature of which Tom
could not readily gather from a mere casual view.

"Well, what's your opinion, now that you have seen the motor?" asked
Mr. Fenwick, anxiously.

"I'd have to see it in operation," said Tom.

"And you shall, right after dinner," declared the inventor. "I'd
like to start it now, and hear what you have to say, but I'm not so
selfish as that. I know you must be hungry after your trip from
Shopton, as they say aeroplaning gives one an appetite."

"I don't know whether it's that or not," answered Tom with a laugh,
"but I am certainly hungry."

"Then we'll postpone the trial until after dinner. It must be ready
by this time, I think," said Mr. Fenwick, as he led the way back to
the house. It was magnificently furnished, for the inventor was a
man of wealth, and only took up aeroplaning as a "fad." An excellent
dinner was served, and then the three returned once more to the shed
where the WHIZZER was kept.

"Shall I start the motor in here?" asked Mr. Fenwick, when he had
summoned several of the machinists whom he employed, to aid himself
and the young inventor.

"It would be better if we could take it outside," suggested Tom,
"yet a crowd is sure to gather, and I don't like to work in a mob of
people."

"Oh, we can easily get around that," said Mr. Fenwick. "I have two
openings to my aeroplane shed. We can take the WHIZZER out of the
rear door, into a field enclosed by a high fence. That is where I
made all my trials, and the crowd couldn't get in, though some boys
did find knot-holes and use them. But I don't mind that. The only
thing that bothers me is that I can't make the WHIZZER go up, and if
it won't go up, it certainly won't sail. That's my difficulty, and I
hope you can remedy it, Tom Swift."

"I'll do the best I can. But let's get the airship outside."

This was soon accomplished, and in the open lot Tom made a thorough
and careful examination of the mechanism. The motor was started, and
the propellers, for there were two, whirled around at rapid speed.

Tom made some tests and calculations, at which he was an expert, and
applied the brake test, to see how much horse power the motor would
deliver.

"I think there is one trouble that we will have to get over," he
finally said to Mr. Fenwick.

"What is that?"

"The motor is not quite powerful enough because of the way in which
you have it geared up. I think by changing some of the cogs, and
getting rid of the off-set shaft, also by increasing the number of
revolutions, and perhaps by using a new style of carburetor, we can
get more speed and power."

"Then we'll do it!" cried Mr. Fenwick, with enthusiasm. "I knew I
hadn't got everything just right. Do you think it will work after
that?"

"Well," remarked Tom, hesitatingly, "I think the arrangement of the
planes will also have to be changed. It will take quite some work,
but perhaps, after a bit, we can get the WHIZZER up in the air."

"Can you begin work at once?" asked the inventor, eagerly.

Tom shook his head.

"I can't stay long enough on this trip," he said. "I promised father
I would be back by to-morrow at the latest, but I will come over
here again, and arrange to stay until I have done all I can. I need
to get some of my special tools, and then, too, you will require
some other supplies, of which I will give you a list. I hope you
don't mind me speaking in this way, Mr. Fenwick, as though I knew
more about it than you do," added Tom, modestly.

"Not a bit of it!" cried the inventor heartily. "I want the benefit
of your advice and experience, and I'll do just as you say. I hope
you can come back soon."

"I'll return the first of the week," promised Tom, "and then we'll
see what can be done. Now I'll go over the whole ship once more, and
see what I need. I also want to test the lifting capacity of your
gas bag."

The rest of the day was a busy one for our hero. With the aid of Mr.
Damon and the owner of the WHIZZER, he went over every point
carefully. Then, as it was too late to attempt the return flight to
Shopton, he telegraphed his father, and he and Mr. Damon remained
over night with Mr. Fenwick.

In the morning, having written out a list of the things that would
be needed, Tom went out to Franklin Field, and repaired his own
monoplane. It was found that one of the electric wires connected
with the motor had broken, thus cutting off the spark. It was soon
repaired, and, in the presence of a large crowd, Tom and Mr. Damon
started on their return flight.

"Do you think you can make the WHIZZER work, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon,
as they were flying high over Philadelphia.

"I'm a little dubious about it," was the reply. "But after I make some
changes I may have a different opinion. The whole affair is too big
and clumsy, that's the trouble; though the electrical part of it is
very good."

Shopton was reached without incident, in about three hours, and
there was no necessity, this time, of vol-planing back to earth.
After a short rest, Tom began getting together a number of special
tools and appliances, which he proposed taking back to Philadelphia
with him.

The young inventor made another trip to Mr. Fenwick's house the
first of the following week. He went by train this time, as he had
to ship his tools, and Mr. Damon did not accompany him. Then, with
the assistance of the inventor of the WHIZZER, and several of his
mechanics, Tom began making the changes on the airship.

"Do you think you can make it fly?" asked Mr. Fenwick, anxiously,
after several days of labor.

"I hope so," replied our hero, and there was more confidence in his
tone than there had been before. As the work progressed, he began to
be more hopeful. "I'll make a trial flight, anyhow, in a few days,"
he added.

"Then I must send word to Mr. Damon," decided Mr. Fenwick. "He wants
to be on hand to see it, and, if possible, go up; so he told me."

"All right," assented Tom. "I only hope it does go up," he
concluded, in a low tone.




CHAPTER VIII

ANDY FOGER'S REVENGE


During the following week, Tom was kept busy over the airship. He
made many important changes, and one of these was to use a new kind
of gas in the balloon bag. He wanted a gas with a greater lifting
power than that of the ordinary illuminating vapor which Mr. Fenwick
had used.

"Well," remarked Tom, as he came from the airship shed one
afternoon, "I think we can give it a try-out, Mr. Fenwick, in a few
days more. I shall have to go back to Shopton to get some articles I
need, and when I come back I will bring Mr. Damon with me, and we
will see what the WHIZZER can do."

"Do you mean we will make a trial flight?"

"Yes."

"For how long a distance?"

"It all depends on how she behaves," answered Tom, with a smile. "If
possible, we'll make a long flight."

"Then I'll tell you what I'm going to do," went on the inventor,
"I'm going to put aboard a stock of provisions, and some other
supplies and stores, in case we are two or three days in the air."

"It might not be a bad plan," agreed Tom, "though I hardly think we
will be gone as long as that."

"Well, being out in the air always makes me hungry," proceeded Mr.
Fenwick, "so I'm going to take plenty of food along."

The time was to come, and that very soon, when this decision of the
inventor of the WHIZZER stood the adventurers in good stead.

Tom returned to Shopton the next day, and sent word to have Mr.
Damon join him in time to go back to the Quaker City two days later.

"But why don't you start right back to Philadelphia to-morrow,"
asked Mr. Swift of his son.

"Because," answered Tom, and that was all the reason he would give,
though had any one seen him reading a certain note a few minutes
before that, which note was awaiting him on his arrival from the
Quaker City, they would not have wondered at his decision.

The note was brief. It merely said:

"Won't you come, and have some apple turnovers? The new cook is a
treasure, and the girls are anxious to meet you."

It was signed: Mary Nestor.

"I think I could enjoy some apple turnovers," remarked Tom, with a
smile.

Having gotten ready the few special appliances he wished to take
back to Philadelphia with him, Tom went, that evening, to call on
Miss Nestor. True to her promise, the girl had a big plate full of
apple turnovers, which she gaily offered our hero on his arrival,
and, on his laughing declination to partake of so many, she ushered
him into a room full of pretty girls, saying:

"They'll help you eat them, Tom. Girls, here is Mr. Swift, who
doesn't mind going up in the air or under the ocean, or even
catching runaway horses," by which last she referred to the time Tom
saved her life, and first made her acquaintance.

As for the young inventor, he gave a gasp, almost as if he had
plunged into a bath of icy water, at the sight of so many pretty
faces staring at him. He said afterward that he would rather have
vol-planed back to earth from a seven-mile height, than again face
such a battery of sparkling eyes.

But our hero soon recovered himself, and entered into the merriment
of the evening, and, before he knew it he was telling Miss Nestor
and her attractive guests something of his exploits.

"But I'm talking altogether too much about myself." he said,
finally. "How is the new cook Miss Nestor; and have you heard from
your father and mother since they sailed on the RESOLUTE for the
West Indies?"

"As to the new cook, she is a jewel of the first water," answered
Miss Nestor. "We all like her, and she is anxious for another ride
in a taxicab, as she calls your auto."

"She shall have it," declared Tom, "for those are the best apple
turnovers I ever ate."

"I'll tell her so," declared Mary. "She'll appreciate it coming from
an inventor of your ability."

"Have you heard from your parents?" asked Tom, anxious to change the
subject.

"Oh, yes. I had a wire to-day. They stopped at St. Augustine to let
me know they were having a glorious time aboard the yacht. Mr.
Hosbrook, the owner, is an ideal host, mamma said. They are
proceeding directly to the West Indies, now. I do hope they will
arrive safely. They say there are bad storms down there at this time
of year."

"Perhaps, if they are shipwrecked, Mr. Swift will go to their rescue
in one of his airships, or a submarine," suggested Mabel Jackson,
one of the several pretty girls.

"Oh, I hope he doesn't have to!" exclaimed Mary. "Don't speak of
shipwrecks! It makes me shudder," and she seemed unduly alarmed.

"Of course they won't have any trouble," asserted Tom, confidently,
more to reassure Miss Nestor, than from any knowledge he possessed;
"but if they do get cast away on a desert island, I'll certainly go
to their rescue," he added.

It was late when Tom started for home that night, for the society of
Miss Nestor and her friends made the time pass quickly. He promised
to call again, and try some more samples of the new cook's culinary
art, as soon as he had gotten Mr. Fenwick's airship in shape for
flying.

As, later that night, the young inventor came in sight of his home,
and the various buildings and shops surrounding it, his first glance
was toward the shed which contained his monoplane, BUTTERFLY. That
little craft was Tom's pet. It had not cost him anything like as
much as had his other inventions, either in time or money, but he
cared more for it than for his big airship, RED CLOUD. This was
principally because the BUTTERFLY was so light and airy, and could
be gotten ready so quickly for a flight across country. It was
capable of long endurance, too, for an extra large supply of
gasolene and oil was carried aboard.

So it was with rather a start of surprise that Tom saw a light in
the structure where the BUTTERFLY was housed.

"I wonder if dad or Mr. Jackson can be out there?" he mused. "Yet, I
don't see why they should be. They wouldn't be going for a flight at
night. Or perhaps Mr. Damon arrived, and is out looking it over."

A moment's reflection, however, told Tom that this last surmise
could not be true, since the eccentric man had telegraphed, saying
he would not arrive until the next day.

"Somebody's out there, however," went on Tom, "and I'm going to see
who it is. I hope it isn't Eradicate monkeying with the monoplane.
He's very curious, and he might get it out of order."

Tom increased his pace, and moved swiftly but softly toward the
shed. If there was an intruder inside he wanted to surprise him.
There were large windows to the place, and they would give a good
view of the interior. As Tom approached, the light within flickered,
and moved to and fro.

Tom reached one of the casements, and peered in. He caught a glimpse
of a moving figure, and he heard a peculiar ripping sound. Then, as
he sprang toward the front door, the light suddenly went out, and
the young inventor could hear some one running from the shop.

"They've seen me, and are trying to get away," thought the lad. "I
must catch them!"

He fairly leaped toward the portal, and, just as he reached it, a
figure sprang out. So close was Tom that the unknown collided with
him, and our hero went over on his back. The other person was tossed
back by the force of the impact, but quickly recovered himself, and
dashed away.

Not before, however, Tom had had a chance to glance at his face,
and, to the chagrin of the young inventor, he recognized, by the dim
light of a crescent moon, the countenance of Andy Foger! If
additional evidence was needed Tom fully recognized the form as that
of the town bully.

"Hold on there, Andy Foger!" shouted the young inventor. "What are
you doing in my shed? What right have you in there? What did you
do?"

Back came the answer through the night:

"I told you I'd get square with you, and I've done it," and then
Andy's footsteps died away, while a mocking laugh floated back to
Tom. What was Andy's revenge?




CHAPTER IX

THE WHIZZER FLIES


For a moment, Tom gazed after the fleeting figure of the cowardly
bully. He was half-minded to give pursuit, and then, realizing that
he could find Andy later if he wanted him, the young inventor
decided his best plan would be to see what damage had been done. For
that damage would follow Andy's secret visit to the shop, Tom was
certain.

Nor was his surmise wrong. Stepping into the building, the lad
switched on the lights, and he could not repress an exclamation of
chagrin as he looked toward his trim little monoplane, the
BUTTERFLY.

Now it was a BUTTERFLY with broken wings, for Andy had slashed the
canvas of the planes in a score of places.

"The scoundrel!" growled Tom. "I'll make him suffer for this! He's
all but ruined my aeroplane."

Tom walked around his pet machine. As he came in front, and saw the
propeller, he gave another exclamation. The fine wooden blades of
several layers, gracefully curved, which had cost him so much in
time and labor to build up, and then fashion to the right shape, had
been hacked, and cut with an axe. The propeller was useless!

"More of Andy's work," murmured Tom. "This is about the worst yet!"

There came over him a feeling of great despondency, which was
succeeded by a justifiable rage. He wanted to take after the bully,
and give him a merciless beating. Then a calmer mood came over Tom.

"After all, what's the use?" he reasoned. "Whipping Andy wouldn't
mend the BUTTERFLY. She's in bad shape, but I can repair her, when I
get time. Luckily, he didn't meddle with the engine. That's all
right." A hasty examination had shown this. "I guess I won't do
anything now," went on Tom. "I'll have my hands full getting Mr.
Fenwick's airship to run. After that I can come back here and fix up
my own. It's a good thing I don't have to depend on her for making
the trip to Philadelphia. Poor BUTTERFLY! you sure are in a bad
way," and Tom felt almost as if he was talking to some living
creature, so wrapped up was he in his trim little monoplane.

After another disheartening look at his air craft, the young
inventor started to leave the shop. He looked at a door, the
fastening of which Andy had broken to gain admittance.

"I should have had the burglar alarm working, and this would never
have happened," reasoned Tom. All the buildings were arranged so
that if any one entered them after a certain hour, an alarm would
ring in the house. But of late, the alarm had not been set, as Tom
and his father were not working on any special inventions that
needed guarding. It was due to this oversight that Andy was able to
get in undetected.

"But it won't happen again," declared Tom, and he at once began
connecting the burglar-apparatus. He went into the house, and told
his father and the engineer what had occurred. They were both
indignant, and the engineer declared that he would sleep with one
eye open all night, ready to respond to the first alarm.

"Oh, there's no danger of Andy coming back right away," said Tom.
"He's too frightened. I wouldn't be surprised if he disappeared for
a time. He'll be thinking that I'm after him."

This proved true, as Andy had left town next morning, and to all
inquiries his mother said he had gone to visit relatives. She was
not aware of her son's meanness, and Tom did not tell her.

Mr. Damon arrived from his home in Waterfield that day, and, with
many "blessings," wanted to know if Tom was ready for the trial of
the electrical airship.

"Yes, we'll leave for Philadelphia to-morrow," was the answer.

"Are we going in the BUTTERFLY? Bless my watch chain, but I like
that little machine!"

"It will be some time before you again have a flight in her," said
Tom, sorrowfully, as he told of Andy's act of vandalism.

"Why, bless my individuality!" cried Mr. Damon, indignantly. "I
never heard of such a thing! Never!"

It did little good to talk of it, however, and Tom wanted to forget
about it. He wished he had time to repair the monoplane before he
left home, but there was much to do to get ready for the trial of
the WHIZZER.

"When will you be back, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift, as his son and Mr.
Damon departed for the Quaker City the following morning.

"Hard to say, dad. If I can make a long flight in the WHIZZER I'll
do so. I may even drop down here and pay you a visit. But if I find
there are many more changes to make in her construction, which is
more than likely, I can't say when I'll return. I'll keep you
posted, however, by writing."

"Can't you arrange to send me some wireless messages?" asked the
older inventor, with a smile.

"I could, if I had thought to rig up the apparatus on Mr. Fenwick's
airship," was the reply. "I'll hardly have time to do it now,
though."

"Send wireless messages from an aeroplane?" gasped Mr. Damon. "Bless
my gizzard! I never heard of such a thing!"

"Oh, it can be done," Tom assured him. And this was a fact. Tom had
installed a wireless apparatus on his RED CLOUD recently, and it is
well known that several of the modern biplanes can send wireless
messages. The crossing and bracing wires of the frame are used for
sending wires, and in place of ground conductors there are trailers
which hang below the aeroplane. The current is derived directly from
the engine, and the remaining things needed are a small step-up
transformer, a key and a few other small parts. Tom had gone a step
farther than this, and had also arranged to receive wireless
messages, though few modern aeroplanes are thus equipped as yet.

But, of course, there was no time now to install a wireless
apparatus on Mr. Fenwick's craft. Tom thought he would be lucky if
he got the WHIZZER to make even a short flight.

"Well, let me hear from you when you can," requested Mr. Swift, and
Tom promised. It was some time after that, and many strange things
happened before Tom Swift again communicated with his father, at any
length.

The young inventor had bidden farewell to Miss Nestor the night
previous. She stated that she had a message that day from her
parents aboard the RESOLUTE, which spoke a passing steamer. Mr. and
Mrs. Nestor, and the other guests of Mr. Hosbrook were well, and
anticipated a fine time on reaching the West Indies.

Tom now said good-by to his father, the housekeeper and Mr. Jackson,
not forgetting, of course, Eradicate Sampson.

"Don't let Andy Foger come sneaking around here, Rad," cautioned the
young inventor.

"'Deed an' I won't!" exclaimed the colored man. "Ef he do, I'll hab
Boomerang kick him t' pieces, an' den I'll whitewash him so his own
folks won't know him! Oh, don't you worry, Massa Tom. Dat Andy won't
do no funny business when I'm around!"

Tom laughed, and started for the station with Mr. Damon. They
arrived in Philadelphia that afternoon, the trip being very slow, as
compared with the one made by the monoplane. They found Mr. Fenwick
anxiously awaiting them, and Tom at once started work on the
airship.

He kept at it until late that night, and resumed early the next
morning. Many more changes and adjustments were made, and that
afternoon, the young inventor said:

"I think we'll give it a try-out, Mr. Fenwick."

"Do you mean make a flight?"

"Yes, if she'll take it; but only a short one. I want to get her up
in the air, and see how she behaves."

"Well, if you find out, after you're up, that she does well, you may
want to take a long flight," suggested Mr. Fenwick. "If you do, why
I have everything aboard necessary for a long voyage. The WHIZZER is
well stocked with provisions."

An hour later, the big electric machine was wheeled out into the
yard, for, in spite of her size, four men could easily move the
craft about, so well was she balanced. Aside from a few personal
friends of the inventor, himself, his machinists, Tom and Mr. Damon,
no one was present at the try-out.

Tom, Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick climbed into the car which was
suspended below the gas bag, and between the wing-like planes on
either side. The young inventor had decided to make the WHIZZER rise
by scudding her across the ground on the bicycle wheels, with which
she was equipped, and then by using the tilting planes to endeavor
to lift her off the earth. He wanted to see if she would go up that
way, without the use of the gas bag.

All was in readiness. The motor was started and the machinery began
to hum and throb. The propellers gained speed with every revolution.
The airship had been made fast by a rope, to which was attached a
strong spring balance, as it was desired to see how much pull the
engine would give.

"Eight hundred pounds," announced one of the machinists.

"A thousand would be better, but we'll try it," murmured Tom. "Cast
off!"

The rope was loosened, and, increasing the speed of the engine, Tom
signalled to the men to give a little momentum to the craft. She
began running over the smooth ground. There was a cheer from the few
spectators. Certainly the WHIZZER made good time on the earth.

Tom was anxiously watching the gages and other instruments. He
wanted a little more speed, but could not seem to get it. He ran the
motor to the utmost, and then, seeing the necessity of making an
attempt to get up into the air, before the end of the speeding
ground was reached, he pulled the elevating plane lever.

The front of the WHIZZER rose, and then settled down. Tom quickly
shut off the power, and jammed on the brake, an arrangement of
spikes that dug into the earth, for the high board fence loomed up
before him.

"What's the matter?" cried Mr. Fenwick, anxiously.

"Couldn't get up speed enough," answered the young inventor. "We
must have more momentum to make her rise."

"Can it be gotten?"

"I think so. I'll gear the motor higher."

It took an hour to do this. Once more the scale test was applied. It
registered a pull of fifteen hundred pounds now.

"We'll go up," said Tom, grimly.

Once more the motors spit out fire, and the propellers whirled so
that they looked like mere circles of light. Once more the WHIZZER
shot over the ground, but this time, as she neared the fence, she
rose up like a bird, cleared it like a trick horse, and soared off
into the air!

The WHIZZER was flying!




CHAPTER X

OVER THE OCEAN


"Hurrah!" cried Mr. Fenwick in delight. "My machine is really flying
at last!"

"Yes," answered Tom, as he adjusted various levers and gears, "she
is going. It's not as high as I'd like, but it is doing very well,
considering the weight of the craft, and the fact that we have not
used the gas bag. I'm going to let that fill now, and we'll go up.
Don't you want to steer, Mr. Fenwick?"

"No, you manage it, Tom, until it's in good running shape. I don't
want to 'hoodoo' it. I worked as hard as I could, and never got more
than two feet off the ground. Now I'm really sailing. It's great!"

He was very enthusiastic, and Tom himself was not a little pleased
at his own success, for certainly the airship had looked to be a
very dubious proposition at first.

"Bless my gaiters! But we are doing pretty well," remarked Mr.
Damon, looking down on the field where Mr. Fenwick's friends and the
machinists were gathered, cheering and waving their hands.

"We'll do better," declared Tom.

He had already set the gas machine in operation, and was now looking
over the electric apparatus, to see that it was working well. It
needed some adjustments, which he made.

All this while the WHIZZER was moving about in a big circle, for the
rudder had been automatically set to so swing the craft. It was
about two hundred feet high, but soon after the gas began to enter
the bag it rose until it was nearly five thousand feet high. This
satisfied Tom that the airship could do better than he expected, and
he decided to return nearer earth.

In going down, he put the craft through a number of evolutions
designed to test her ability to answer the rudders promptly. The lad
saw opportunity for making a number of changes, and suggested them
to Mr. Fenwick.

"Are you going any farther?" asked the owner of the WHIZZER, as he
saw that his craft was slowly settling.

"No, I think we've done enough for the first day," said Tom, "But
I'd like you to handle her now, Mr. Fenwick. You can make the
landing, while I watch the motor and other machines."

"Yes. I guess I can make a landing all right," assented the
inventor. "I'm better at coming down than going up."

He did make a good descent, and received the congratulation of his
friends as he stepped from the airship. Tom was also given much
praise for his success in making the craft go at all, for Mr.
Fenwick and his acquaintances had about given up hope that she ever
would rise.

"Well, what do you think of her?" Mr. Fenwick wanted to know of the
young inventor, who replied that, as soon as some further changes
had been made, they would attempt a long flight.

This promise was kept two days later. They were busy days for Tom,
Mr. Fenwick and the latter's assistants. Tom sent a short note to
his father telling of the proposed long flight, and intimated that
he might make a call in Shopton if all went well. He also sent a
wire to Miss Nestor, hinting that she might have some apple
turnovers ready for him.

But Tom never called for that particular pastry, though it was
gotten ready for him when the girl received his message.

All was in readiness for the long flight, and a preliminary test had
demonstrated that the WHIZZER had been wonderfully improved by the
changes Tom made. The young inventor looked over the supply of food
Mr. Fenwick had placed aboard, glanced at the other stores, and
asked:

"How long do you expect to be gone, Mr. Fenwick?"

"Why, don't you think we can stay out a week?"

"That's quite a while," responded Tom. "We may be glad to return in
two days, or less. But I think we're all ready to start. Are any of
your friends going?"

"I've tried to pursuade some of them to accompany me, but they are a
bit timid," said the inventor. "I guess we three will make up the
party this time, though if our trip is a successful one I'll be
overwhelmed with requests for rides, I suppose."

As before, a little crowd gathered to see the start. The day was
warm, but there was a slight haziness which Tom did not like. He
hoped, though, that it would pass over before they had gone far.

"Do you wish to head for any particular spot, Mr. Fenwick?" asked
Tom, as they were entering the cabin.

"Yes, I would like to go down and circle Cape May, New Jersey, if we
could. I have a friend who has a summer cottage there, and he was
always laughing at my airship. I'd just like to drop down in front
of his place now, and pay him a call."

"We'll try it," assented Tom, with a smile.

An auspicious start was made, the WHIZZER taking the air after a
short flight across the ground, and then, with the lifting gas
aiding in pulling the craft upward, the airship started to sail high
over the city of Philadelphia.

So swiftly did it rise that the cheers of the little crowd of Mr.
Fenwick's friends were scarcely heard. Up and up it went, and then a
little later, to the astonishment of the crowds in the streets, Tom
put the airship twice in a circle around the statue of William Penn,
on the top of the City Hall.

"Now you steer," the lad invited Mr. Fenwick. "Take her straight
across the Delaware River, and over Camden, New Jersey, and then
head south, for Cape May. We ought to make it in an hour, for we are
getting up good speed."

Leaving the owner in charge of his craft, to that gentleman's no
small delight, Tom and Mr. Damon began an inspection of the
electrical and other machinery. There was much that needed
attention, but Tom soon had the automatic apparatus in working
order, and then less attention need be given to it.

Several times the young investor looked out of the windows with
which the cabin was fitted. Mr. Damon noticed this.

"Bless my shoe laces, Tom," he said. "What's the matter?"

"I don't like the looks of the weather," was the answer. "I think
we're in for a storm."

"Then let's put back."

"No, it would be too bad to disappoint Mr. Fenwick, now that we have
made such a good start. He wants to make a long flight, and I can't
blame him," spoke Tom, in a low voice.

"But if there's danger--"

"Oh, well, we can soon be at Cape May, and start back. The wind is
freshening rather suddenly, though," and Tom looked at the
anemometer, which showed a speed of twenty miles an hour. However,
it was in their favor, aiding them to make faster time.

The speed of the WHIZZER was now about forty miles an hour, not fast
for an air craft, but sufficiently speedy in trying out a new
machine. Tom looked at the barograph, and noted that they had
attained an altitude of seven thousand five hundred feet.

"That's better than millionaire Daxtel's distance of seven thousand
one hundred and five feet," remarked the lad, with a smile, "and it
breaks Jackson's climb of seven thousand three hundred and three
feet, which is pretty good for your machine, Mr. Fenwick."

"Do you really think so?" asked the pleased inventor.

"Yes. And we'll do better than that in time, but it's best to go
slow at first, until we see how she is standing the strain. This is
high and fast enough for the present."

They kept on, and as Tom saw that the machinery was working well, he
let it out a little, The WHIZZER at once leaped forward, and, a
little later they came within sight of Cape May, the Jersey coast
resort.

"Now to drop down and visit my friend," said Mr. Fenwick, with a
smile. "Won't he be surprised!"

"I don't think we'd better do it," said Tom.

"Why not?"

"Well, the wind is getting stronger every minute and it will be
against us on the way back. If we descend, and try to make another
ascension we may fail. We're up in the air now, and it may be easy
to turn around and go back. Then, again, it may not, but it
certainly will be easier to shift around up here than down on the
ground. So I'd rather not descend--that is, not entirely to the
ground."

"Well, just as you say, though I wanted my friend to know I could
build a successful airship."

"Oh, we can get around that. I'll take her down as low as is safe,
and fly over his house, if you'll point it out, and you can drop him
a message in one of the pasteboard tubes we carry for that purpose."

"That's a good idea," assented Mr. Fenwick. "I'll do it."

Tom sent the WHIZZER down until the hotels and cottages could be
made out quite plainly. After looking with a pair of opera glasses,
Mr. Fenwick picked out the residence of his friend, and Tom prepared
to circle about the roof.

By this time the presence of the airship had become known to
hundreds, and crowds were eagerly watching it.

"There he is! There's my friend who didn't believe I would ever
succeed!" exclaimed Mr. Fenwick, pointing to a man who stood in the
street in front of a large, white house. "I'll drop him a message!"

One was in readiness in a weighted pasteboard cylinder, and soon it
was falling downward. The airship was moving slowly, as it was
beating against the wind.

Leaning out of the cabin window, Mr. Fenwick shouted to his friend:

"Hey, Will! I thought you said my airship would never go! I'll come
and give you a ride, some day!"

Whether the gentleman understood what Mr. Fenwick shouted at him is
doubtful, but he saw the inventor waving his hand, and he saw the
falling cylinder, and a look of astonishment spread over his face,
as he ran to pick up the message.

"We're going up now, and will try to head for home," said Tom, a
moment later, as he shifted the rudder.

"Bless my storage battery!" cried Mr. Damon. "But we have had a fine
trip."

"A much better one than we'll have going back," observed Tom, in a
low voice.

"Why; what's the matter?" asked the eccentric man.

"The wind has increased to a gale, and will be dead against us,"
answered Tom.

Mr. Fenwick was busy writing another message to drop, and he paid
little attention to the young inventor. Tom sent the craft well up
into the air, and then tried to turn it about, and head back for
Philadelphia. No sooner had he done so than the airship was met by
the full force of the wind, which was now almost a hurricane. It had
steadily increased, but, as long as they were moving with it, they
did not notice it so much. Once they attempted to stem its fury they
found themselves almost helpless.

Tom quickly realized this, and, giving up his intention of beating
up against the wind, he turned the craft around, and let it fly
before the gale, the propellers aiding to get up a speed of seventy
miles an hour.

Mr. Fenwick, who had dropped the last of his messages, came from his
small private cabin, to where Mr. Damon and Tom were in a low-voiced
conversation near the engines. The owner of the WHIZZER, happened to
look down through a plate-glass window in the floor of car. What he
saw caused him to give a gasp of astonishment.

"Why--why!" he exclaimed. "We--we're over the ocean."

"Yes," answered Tom, quietly, as he gazed down on the tumbling
billows below them. They had quickly passed over Cape May, across
the sandy beach, and were now well out over the Atlantic.

"Why--why are we out here?" asked Mr. Fenwick. "Isn't it dangerous--in
an airship that hasn't been thoroughly tried yet?"

"Dangerous? Yes, somewhat," replied Tom, slowly. "But we can't help
ourselves, Mr. Fenwick. We can't turn around and go back in this
gale, and we can't descend."

"Then what's to be done?"

"Nothing, except to keep on until the gale blows itself out."

"And how long will that be?"

"I don't know--a week, maybe."

"Bless my coffee pot, I'm glad we've got plenty on board to eat!"
exclaimed Mr. Damon.




CHAPTER XI

A NIGHT OF TERROR


After the first shock of Tom's announcement, the two men, who were
traveling with him in the airship, showed no signs of fear. Yet it
was alarming to know that one was speeding over the mighty ocean,
before a terrific gale, with nothing more substantial under one that
a comparatively frail airship.

Still Mr. Damon knew Tom of old, and had confidence in his ability,
and, while Mr. Fenwick was not so well acquainted with our hero, he
had heard much about him, and put faith in his skill to carry them
out of their present difficulty.

"Are you sure you can't turn around and go back?" asked Mr. Fenwick.
His knowledge of air-currents was rather limited.

"It is out of the question," replied Tom, simply. "We would surely
rip this craft to pieces if we attempted to buffet this storm."

"Is it so bad, then?" asked Mr. Damon, forgetting to bless anything
in the tense excitement of the moment.

"It might be worse," was the reply of the young inventor. "The wind
is blowing about eighty miles an hour at times, and to try to turn
now would mean that we would tear the planes loose from the ship.
True, we could still keep up by means of the gas bag, but even that
might be injured. Going as we are, in the same direction as that in
which the wind is blowing, we do not feel the full effect of it."

"But, perhaps, if we went lower down, or higher up, we could get in
a different current of air," suggested Mr. Fenwick, who had made
some study of aeronautics.

"I'll try," assented Tom, simply. He shifted the elevating rudder,
and the WHIZZER began to go up, slowly, for there was great lateral
pressure on her large surface. But Tom knew his business, and urged
the craft steadily. The powerful electric engines, which were the
invention of Mr. Fenwick, stood them in good stead, and the
barograph soon showed that they were steadily mounting.

"Is the wind pressure any less?" inquired Mr. Damon, anxiously.

"On the contrary, it seems to be increasing," replied Tom, with a
glance at the anemometer. "It's nearly ninety miles an hour now."

"Then, aided by the propellers, we must be making over a hundred
miles an hour." said the inventor.

"We are,--a hundred and thirty," assented Tom.

"We'll be blown across the ocean at this rate," exclaimed Mr. Damon.
"Bless my soul! I didn't count on that."

"Perhaps we had better go down," suggested Mr. Fenwick. "I don't
believe we can get above the gale."

"I'm afraid not," came from Tom. "It may be a bit better down
below."

Accordingly, the rudder was changed, and the WHIZZER pointed her
nose downward. None of the lifting gas was let out, as it was
desired to save that for emergencies.

Down, down, down, went the great airship, until the adventurers
within, by gazing through the plate glass window in the floor of the
cabin, could see the heaving, white-capped billows, tossing and
tumbling below them.

"Look out, or we'll be into them!" shouted Mr. Damon.

"I guess we may as well go back to the level where we were,"
declared Tom. "The wind, both above and below that particular strata
is stronger, and we will be safer up above. Our only chance is to
scud before it, until it has blown itself out. And I hope it will be
soon."

"Why?" asked Mr. Damon, in a low voice.

"Because we may be blown so far that we can not get back while our
power holds out, and then--" Tom did not finish, but Mr. Damon knew
what he meant--death in the tossing ocean, far from land, when the
WHIZZER, unable to float in the air any longer, should drop into the
storm-enraged Atlantic.

They were again on a level, where the gale blew less furiously than
either above or below, but this was not much relief. It seemed as if
the airship would go to pieces, so much was it swayed and tossed
about. But Mr. Fenwick, if he had done nothing else, had made a
staunch craft, which stood the travelers in good stead.

All the rest of that day they swept on, at about the same speed.
There was nothing for them to do, save watch the machinery,
occasionally replenishing the oil tanks, or making minor
adjustments.

"Well," finally remarked Mr. Damon, when the afternoon was waning
away, "if there's nothing else to do, suppose we eat. Bless my
appetite, but I'm hungry! and I believe you said, Mr. Fenwick, that
you had plenty of food aboard."

"So we have, but the excitement of being blown out to sea on our
first real trip, made me forget all about it. I'll get dinner at
once, if you can put up with an amateur's cooking."

"And I'll help," offered Mr. Damon. "Tom can attend to the airship,
and we'll serve the meals. It will take our minds off our troubles."

There was a well equipped kitchen aboard the WHIZZER and soon savory
odors were coming from it. In spite of the terror of their
situation, and it was not to be denied that they were in peril, they
all made a good meal, though it was difficult to drink coffee and
other liquids, owing to the sudden lurches which the airship gave
from time to time as the gale tossed her to and fro.

Night came, and, as the blackness settled down, the gale seemed to
increase in fury. It howled through the slender wire rigging of the
WHIZZER, and sent the craft careening from side to side, and
sometimes thrust her down into a cavern of the air, only to lift her
high again, almost like a ship on the heaving ocean below them.

As darkness settled in blacker and blacker, Tom had a glimpse below
him, of tossing lights on the water.

"We just passed over some vessel," he announced. "I hope they are in
no worse plight than we are." Then, there suddenly came to him a
thought of the parents of Mary Nestor, who were somewhere on the
ocean, in the yacht RESOLUTE bound for the West Indies.

"I wonder if they're out in this storm, too?" mused Tom. "If they
are, unless the vessel is a staunch one, they may be in danger."

The thought of the parents of the girl he cared so much for being in
peril, was not reassuring to Tom, and he began to busy himself about
the machinery of the airship, to take his mind from the presentiment
that something might happen to the RESOLUTE.

"We'll have our own troubles before morning," the lad mused, "if
this wind doesn't die down."

There was no indication that this was going to be the case, for the
gale increased rather than diminished. Tom looked at their speed
gage. They were making a good ninety miles an hour, for it had been
decided that it was best to keep the engine and propellers going, as
they steadied the ship.

"Ninety miles an hour," murmured Tom. "And we've been going at that
rate for ten hours now. That's nearly a thousand miles. We are quite
a distance out to sea."

He looked at a compass, and noted that, instead of being headed
directly across the Atlantic they were bearing in a southerly
direction.

"At this rate, we won't come far from getting to the West Indies
ourselves," reasoned the young inventor. "But I think the gale will
die away before morning."

The storm did not, however. More fiercely it blew through the hours
of darkness. It was a night of terror, for they dared not go to
sleep, not knowing at what moment the ship might turn turtle, or
even rend apart, and plunge with them into the depths of the sea.

So they sat up, occasionally attending to the machinery, and noting
the various gages. Mr. Damon made hot coffee, which they drank from
time to time, and it served to refresh them.

There came a sudden burst of fury from the storm, and the airship
rocked as if she was going over.

"Bless my heart!" cried Mr. Damon, springing up. "That was a close
call!"

Tom said nothing. Mr. Fenwick looked pale and alarmed.

The hours passed. They were swept ever onward, at about the same
speed, sometimes being whirled downward, and again tossed upward at
the will of the wind. The airship was well-nigh helpless, and Tom,
as he realized their position, could not repress a fear in his heart
as he thought of the parents of the girl he loved being tossed about
on the swirling ocean, in a frail pleasure yacht.




CHAPTER XII

A DOWNWARD GLIDE


They sat in the cabin of the airship, staring helplessly at each
other. Occasionally Tom rose to attend to one of the machines, or
Mr. Fenwick did the same. Occasionally, Mr. Damon uttered a remark.
Then there was silence, broken only by the howl of the gale.

It seemed impossible for the WHIZZER to travel any faster, yet when
Tom glanced at the speed gage he noted, with a feeling of surprise,
akin to horror, that they were making close to one hundred and fifty
miles an hour. Only an aeroplane could have done it, and then only
when urged on by a terrific wind which added to the speed produced
by the propellers.

The whole craft swayed and trembled, partly from the vibration of
the electrical machinery, and partly from the awful wind. Mr.
Fenwick came close to Tom, and exclaimed:

"Do you think it would be any use to try once more to go above or
below the path of the storm?"

Tom's first impulse was to say that it would be useless, but he
recollected that the craft belonged to Fenwick, and surely that
gentleman had a right to make a suggestion. The young inventor
nodded.

"We'll try to go up," he said. "If that doesn't work, I'll see if I
can force her down. It will be hard work, though. The wind is too
stiff."

Tom shifted the levers and rudders. His eyes were on the barograph--that
delicate instrument, the trembling hand of which registered
their height. Tom had tilted the deflection rudder to send them up,
but as he watched the needle he saw it stationary. They were not
ascending, though the great airship was straining to mount to an
upper current where there might be calm.

It was useless, however, and Tom, seeing the futility of it, shifted
the rudder to send them downward. This was more easily accomplished,
but it was a change for the worse, since, the nearer to the ocean
they went, the fiercer blew the wind.

"Back! Go back up higher!" cried Mr. Damon,

"We can't!" yelled Tom. "We've got to stay here now!"

"Oh, but this is awful!" exclaimed Mr. Fenwick. "We can never stand
this!"

The airship swaged more than ever, and the occupants were tossed
about in the cabin, from side to side. Indeed, it did seem that
human beings never could come alive out of that fearful ordeal.

As Tom looked from one of the windows of the cabin, he noted a pale,
grayish sort of light outside. At first he could not understand what
it was, then, as he observed the sickly gleams of the incandescent
electric lamps, he knew that the hour of dawn was at hand.

"See!" he exclaimed to his companions, pointing to the window.
"Morning is coming."

"Morning!" gasped Mr. Damon. "Is the night over? Now, perhaps we
shall get rid of the storm."

"I'm afraid not," answered Tom, as he noted the anemometer and felt
the shudderings of the WHIZZER as she careened on through the gale.
"It hasn't blown out yet!"

The pale light increased. The electrics seemed to dim and fade. Tom
looked to the engines. Some of the apparatus was in need of oil, and
he supplied it. When he came back to the main cabin, where stood Mr.
Damon and Mr. Fenwick, it was much lighter outside.

"Less than a day since we left Philadelphia," murmured the owner of
the WHIZZER, as he glanced at a distance indicator, "yet we have
come nearly sixteen hundred miles. We certainly did travel top
speed. I wonder where we are?"

"Still over the ocean," replied Mr. Damon, as he looked down at the
heaving billows rolling amid crests of foam far below them. "Though
what part of it would be hard to say. We'll have to reckon out our
position when it gets calmer."

Tom came from the engine room. His face wore a troubled look, and he
said, addressing the older inventor:

"Mr. Fenwick, I wish you'd come and look at the gas generating
apparatus. It doesn't seem to be working properly."

"Anything wrong?" asked Mr. Damon, suspiciously.

"I hope not," replied Tom, with all the confidence he could muster.
"It may need adjusting. I am not so familiar with it as I am with
the one on the RED CLOUD. The gas seems to be escaping from the bag,
and we may have to descend, for some distance."

"But the aeroplanes will keep us up," said Mr. Daman.

"Yes--they will," and Tom hesitated. "That is, unless something
happens to them. They are rather frail to stand alone the brunt of
the gale, and I wish--"

Tom did not complete the sentence. Instead, he paused suddenly and
seemed to be intently listening.

From without there came a rending, tearing, crashing sound. The
airship quivered from end to end, and seemed to make a sudden dive
downward. Then it appeared to recover, and once more glided forward.

Tom, followed by Mr. Fenwick, made a rush for the compartment where
the machine was installed. They had no sooner reached it than there
sounded an explosion, and the airship recoiled as if it had hit a
stone wall.

"Bless my shaving brush! What's that?" cried Mr. Damon. "Has
anything happened?"

"I'm rather afraid there has," answered Tom, solemnly. "It sounded
as though the gas bag went up. And I'm worried over the strength of
the planes. We must make an investigation!"

"We're falling!" almost screamed Mr. Fenwick, as he glanced at the
barograph, the delicate needle of which was swinging to and fro,
registering different altitudes.

"Bless my feather bed! So we are!" shouted Mr. Damon. "Let's jump,
and avoid being caught under the airship!"

He darted for a large window, opening from the main cabin, and was
endeavoring to raise it when Tom caught his hand.

"What are you trying to do," asked the lad, hoarsely.

"Save my life! I want to get out of this as soon as I can. I'm going
to jump!"

"Don't think of it! You'd be instantly killed. We're too high for a
jump, even into the ocean."

"The ocean! Oh, is that still below us? Is there any chance of being
saved? What can be done?" Mr. Damon hesitated.

"We must first find out how badly we are damaged," said Tom,
quietly. "We must keep our heads, and be calm, no matter what
happens. I need your help, Mr. Damon."

This served to recall the rather excited man to his senses. He came
back to the centre of the cabin, which was no easy task, for the
floor of it was tilted at first one angle, and then another. He
stood at Tom's side.

"What can I do to help you?" he asked. Mr. Fenwick was darting here
and there, examining the different machines. None of them seemed to
be damaged.

"If you will look and see what has happened to our main wing planes,
I will see how much gas we have left in the bag," suggested Tom.
"Then we can decide what is best to be done. We are still quite
high, and it will take some time to complete our fall, as, even if
everything is gone, the material of the bag will act as a sort of
parachute."

Mr. Damon darted to a window in the rear of the cabin, where he
could obtain a glimpse of the main wing planes. He gave a cry of
terror and astonishment.

"Two of the planes are gone!" he reported. "They are torn and are
hanging loose."

"I feared as much," retorted Tom, quietly, "The gale was too much
for them."

"What of the lifting gas?" asked Mr. Fenwick, quickly.

"It has nearly all flowed out of the retaining bag."

"Then we must make more at once. I will start the generating
machine."

He darted toward it.

"It will be useless," spoke Tom, quietly.

"Why?"

"Because there is no bag left to hold it. The silk and rubber
envelope has been torn to pieces by the gale. The wind is even
stronger than it was last night."

"Then what's to be done?" demanded Mr. Damon, with a return of his
alarmed and nervous manner. "Bless my fingernails! What's to be
done?"

For an instant Tom did not answer. It was constantly getting
lighter, though there was no sun, for it was obscured by scudding
clouds. The young inventor looked critically at the various gages
and indicators.

"Is--is there any chance for us?" asked Mr. Fenwick, quietly.

"I think so," answered Tom, with a hopeful smile. "We have about two
thousand feet to descend, for we have fallen nearly that distance
since the accident."

"Two thousand feet to fall!" gasped Mr. Damon. "We can never do it
and live!"

"I think so," spoke Tom.

"Bless my gizzard! How?" fairly exploded Mr. Damon.

"By vol-planing down!"

"But, even if we do, we will fall into the ocean!" cried Mr.
Fenwick. "We will be drowned!"

"No," and Tom spoke more quietly than before. "We are over a large
island." he went on, "and I propose to let the disabled airship
vol-plane down to it. That is our only chance."

"Over an island!" cried Mr. Damon. He looked down through the floor
observation window. Tom had spoken truly. At that moment they were
over a large island, which had suddenly loomed up in the wild and
desolate waste of the ocean. They had reached its vicinity just in
time.

Tom stepped to the steering and rudder levers, and took charge. He
was going to attempt a most difficult feat--that of guiding a
disabled airship back to earth in the midst of a hurricane, and
landing her on an unknown island. Could he do it?

There was but one answer. He must try. It was the only chance of
saving their lives, and a slim one at best.

Down shot the damaged WHIZZER like some giant bird with broken
wings, but Tom Swift was in charge, and it seemed as if the craft
knew it, as she began that earthward glide.




CHAPTER XIII

ON EARTHQUAKE ISLAND


Mingled feelings possessed the three adventurers within the airship.
Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick had crowded to the window, as Tom spoke,
to get a glimpse of the unknown island toward which they were
shooting. They could see it more plainly now, from the forward
casement, as well as from the one in the bottom of the craft. A
long, narrow, rugged piece of land it was, in the midst of the
heaving ocean, for the storm still raged and lashed the waves to
foam.

"Can you make it?" asked Mr. Damon, in a low voice.

"I think so," answered Tom, more cheerfully.

"Shall I shut down the motor?" inquired the older inventor.

"Yes, you might as well. We don't need the propellers now, and I may
be better able to make the glide without them."

The buzzing and purring electrical apparatus was shut down. Silence
reigned in the airship, but the wind still howled outside. As Tom
had hoped, the ship became a little more steady with the stopping of
the big curved blades, though had the craft been undamaged they
would have served to keep her on an even keel.

With skillful hand he so tilted the elevating planes that, after a
swift downward glide, the head of the WHIZZER would be thrown up, so
to speak, and she would sail along in a plane parallel to the
island. This had the effect of checking her momentum, just as the
aviator checks the downward rush of his monoplane or biplane when he
is making a landing.

Tom repeated this maneuver several times, until a glance at his
barograph showed that they had but a scant sixty feet to go. There
was time but for one more upward throwing of the WHIZZER's nose, and
Tom held to that position as long as possible. They could now make
out the topography of the island plainly, for it was much lighter.
Tom saw a stretch of sandy beach, and steered for that.

Downward shot the airship, inert and lifeless. It was not like
gliding his little BUTTERFLY to earth after a flight, but Tom hoped
he could make it. They were now within ten feet of the earth,
skimming forward. Tom tried another upward tilt, but the forward
planes would not respond. They could get no grip on the air.

With a crash that could have been heard some distance the WHIZZER
settled to the sand. It ran along a slight distance, and then, as
the bicycle wheels collapsed under the pressure, the airship seemed
to go together in a shapeless mass.

At the first impact with the earth, Tom had leaped away from the
steering wheel and levers, for he did not want to be crushed against
them. Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick, in pursuance of a plan adopted when
they found that they were falling, had piled a lot of seat cushions
around them. They had also provided some as buffers for Tom, and our
hero, at the instant of the crash, had thrown himself behind and
upon them.

It seemed as if the whole ship went to pieces. The top of the main
cabin crashed down, as the side supports gave way, but, fortunately,
there were strong main braces, and the roof did not fall completely
upon our friends.

The whole bottom of the craft was forced upward and had it not been
for the protecting cushions, there might have been serious injuries
for all concerned. As it was they were badly bruised and shaken up.

After the first crash, and succeeding it an instant later, there
came a second smash, followed by a slight explosion, and a shower of
sparks could be seen in the engine room.

"That's the electrical apparatus smashing through the floor!" called
Tom. "Come, let's get out of here before the gasolene sets anything
on fire. Are you all right, Mr. Damon, and you, Mr. Fenwick?"

"Yes, I guess so," answered the inventor. "Oh, what a terrible
crash! My airship is ruined!"

"You may be glad we are alive," said Mr. Damon. "Bless my top knot,
I feel--"

He did not finish the sentence. At that moment a piece of wood,
broken from the ceiling, where it had hung by a strip of canvas came
crashing down, and hit Mr. Damon on the head.

The eccentric man toppled over on his pile of cushions, from which
he was arising when he was struck.

"Oh, is he killed?" gasped Mr. Fenwick.

"I hope not!" cried Tom. "We must get him out of here, at all
events. There may be a fire."

They both sprang to Mr. Damon's aid, and succeeded in lifting him
out. There was no difficulty in emerging from the airship as there
were big, broken gaps, on all sides of what was left of the cabin.
Once in the outer air Mr. Damon revived, and opened his eyes.

"Much hurt?" asked Tom, feeling of his friend's head.

"No--no, I--I guess not," was the slow answer. "I was stunned for a
moment. I'm all right now. Nothing broken, I guess," and his hand
went to his head.

"No, nothing broken," added Tom, cheerfully, "but you've got a lump
there as big as an ostrich egg. Can you walk?"

"Oh, I'm all right. Bless my stars, what a wreck!"

Mr. Damon looked at the remains of the airship. It certainly was a
wreck! The bent and twisted planes were wrapped about the afterpart,
the gas bag was but a shred, the frame was splintered and twisted,
and the under part, where the starting wheels were placed, resembled
a lot of broken bicycles. The cabin looked like a shack that had
sustained an explosion of dynamite.

"It's a wonder we came out alive," said Mr. Fenwick, in a low voice.

"Indeed it is," agreed Tom, as he came back with a tin can full of
sea water, with which to bathe Mr. Damon's head. The lad had picked
up the can from where it had rolled from the wreck, and they had
landed right on the beach.

"It doesn't seem to blow so hard," observed Mr. Damon, as he was
tenderly sopping his head with a handkerchief wet in the salt water.

"No, the wind is dying out, but it happened too late to do us any
good," remarked Tom, sorrowfully. "Though if it hadn't blown us this
far, we might have come to grief over the ocean, and be floundering
in that, instead of on dry land."

"That's so," agreed Mr. Fenwick, who was carefully feeling of some
bruises on his legs. "I wonder where we are, anyhow?"

"I haven't the least idea," responded Tom. "It's an island, but
which one, or where it is I don't know. We were blown nearly two
thousand miles, I judge."

He walked over and surveyed the wreck. Now that the excitement was
over he was beginning to be aware of numerous bruises and
contusions, His legs felt rather queer, and on rolling up his
trousers he found there was a deep cut in the right shin, just below
his knee. It was bleeding, but he bandaged it with a spare
handkerchief, and walked on.

Peering about, he saw that nearly the whole of the machinery in the
engine room, including most of the electrical apparatus, had fallen
bodily through the floor, and now rested on the sand.

"That looks to be in pretty good shape." mused Tom, "but it's a
question whether it will ever be any good to us. We can't rebuild
the airship here, that's certain."

He walked about the wreck, and then returned to his friends. Mr.
Damon was more like himself, and Mr. Fenwick had discovered that he
had only minor bruises.

"Bless my coffee cup!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I declare, I feel
hungry. I wonder if there's anything left to eat in the wreck?"

"Plenty," spoke Tom, cheerfully. "I'll get it out. I can eat a
sandwich or too myself, and perhaps I can set up the gasolene stove,
and cook something."

As the young inventor was returning to the wreck, he was halted
halfway by a curious trembling feeling. At first he thought it was a
weakness of his legs, caused by his cut, but a moment later he
realized with a curious, sickening sensation that it was the ground--the
island itself--that was shaking and trembling.

The lad turned back. Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick were staring after
him with fear showing on their faces.

"What was that?" cried the inventor.

"Bless my gizzard! Did you feel that, Tom?" cried Mr. Damon. "The
whole place is shaking!"

Indeed, there was a stronger tremor now, and it was accompanied by a
low, rumbling sound, like distant thunder. The adventurers were
swaying to and fro.

Suddenly they were tossed to the ground by a swaying motion, and not
far off a great crack opened in the earth. The roaring, rumbling
sound increased in volume.

"An earthquake! It's an earthquake!" cried Tom. "We're in the midst
of an earthquake!"




CHAPTER XIV

A NIGHT IN CAMP


The rumbling and roaring continued for perhaps two minutes, during
which time the castaways found it impossible to stand, for the
island was shaking under their feet with a sickening motion. Off to
one side there was a great fissure in the earth, and, frightened as
he was, Tom looked to see if it was extending in their direction.

If it was, or if a crack opened near them, they might be
precipitated into some bottomless abyss, or into the depths of the
sea. But the fissure did not increase in length or breadth, and,
presently the rumbling, roaring sound subsided. The island grew
quiet and the airship travelers rose to their feet.

"Bless my very existence! What happened?" cried Mr. Damon.

"It was an earthquake; wasn't it, Tom?" asked Mr. Fenwick.

"It sure was," agreed the young inventor. "Rather a hard one, too. I
hope we don't have any more."

"Do you think there is any likelihood of it?" demanded Mr. Damon.
"Bless my pocketbook! If I thought so I'd leave at once."

"Where would you go?" inquired Tom, looking out across the tumbling
ocean, which had hardly had a chance to subside from the gale, ere
it was again set in a turmoil by the earth-tremor.

"That's so--there isn't a place to escape to," went on the eccentric
man, with something like a groan. "We are in a bad place--do you
think there'll be more quakes, Tom?"

"It's hard to say. I don't know where we are, and this island may be
something like Japan, subject to quakes, or it may be that this one
is merely a spasmodic tremor. Perhaps the great storm which brought
us here was part of the disturbance of nature which ended up with
the earthquake. We may have no more."

"And there may be one at any time," added Mr. Fenwick.

"Yes," assented Tom.

"Then let's get ready for it," proposed Mr. Damon. "Let's take all
the precautions possible."

"There aren't any to take," declared Tom. "All we can do is to wait
until the shocks come--if any more do come, which I hope won't
happen, and then we must do the best we can."

"Oh, dear me! Bless my fingernails!" cried Mr. Damon, wringing his
hands. "This is worse than falling in an airship! There you do have
SOME chance. Here you haven't any."

"Oh, it may not be so bad," Tom cried to reassure him. "This may
have been the first shock in a hundred years, and there may never be
another."

But, as he looked around on the island, he noted evidences that it
was of volcanic origin, and his heart misgave him, for he knew that
such islands, created suddenly by a submarine upheaval, might just
as suddenly be destroyed by an earthquake, or by sinking into the
ocean. It was not a pleasant thought--it was like living over a
mine, that might explode at any moment. But there was no help for
it.

Tom tried to assume a cheerfulness he did not feel. He realized
that, in spite of his youth, both Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick rather
depended on him, for Tom was a lad of no ordinary attainments, and
had a fund of scientific knowledge. He resolved to do his best to
avoid making his two companions worry.

"Let's get it off our minds," suggested the lad, after a while. "We
were going to get something to eat. Suppose we carry out that
program. My appetite wasn't spoiled by the shock."

"I declare mine wasn't either," said Mr. Damon, "but I can't forget
it easily. It's the first earthquake I was ever in."

He watched Tom as the latter advanced once more toward the wreck of
the airship, and noticed that the lad limped, for his right leg had
been cut when the WHIZZER had fallen to earth.

"What's the matter, Tom; were you hurt in the quake?" asked the
eccentric man.

"No--no," Tom hastened to assure him. "I just got a bump in the
fall--that's all. It isn't anything. If you and Mr. Fenwick want to
get out some food from the wrecked store room I'll see if I can haul
out the gasolene stove from the airship. Perhaps we can use it to
make some coffee."

By delving in about the wreck, Tom was able to get out the gasolene
stove. It was broken, but two of the five burners were in
commission, and could be used. Water, and gasolene for use in the
airship, was carried in steel tanks. Some of these had been split
open by the crash, but there was one cask of water left, and three
of gasolene, insuring plenty of the liquid fuel. As for the water,
Tom hoped to be able to find a spring on the island.

In the meanwhile, Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick had been investigating
the contents of the storeroom. There was a large supply of food,
much larger than would have been needed, even on a two weeks' trip
in the air, and the inventor of the WHIZZER hardly knew why he had
put so much aboard.

"But if we have to stay here long, it may come in handy," observed
Tom, with a grim smile.

"Why; do you think we WILL be here long?" asked Mr. Damon.

The young inventor shrugged his shoulders.

"There is no telling," he said. "If a passing steamer happens to see
us, we may be taken off to-day or to-morrow. If not we may be here a
week, or--" Tom did not finish. He stood in a listening attitude.

There was a rumbling sound, and the earth seemed again to tremble.
Then there came a great splash in the water at the foot of a tall,
rugged cliff about a quarter of a mile away. A great piece of the
precipice had fallen into the ocean.

"I thought that was another earthquake coming," said Mr. Damon, with
an air of relief.

"So did I," admitted Mr. Fenwick.

"It was probably loosened by the shock, and so fell into the sea,"
spoke Tom.

Their momentary fright over, the castaways proceeded to get their
breakfast. Tom soon had water boiling on the gasolene stove, for he
had rescued a tea-kettle and a coffee pot from the wreck of the
kitchen of the airship. Shortly afterward, the aroma of coffee
filled the air, and a little later there was mingled with it the
appetizing odor of sizzling bacon and eggs, for Mr. Fenwick, who was
very fond of the latter, had brought along a supply, carefully
packed in sawdust carriers, so that the shock had broken only a few
of them.

"Well, I call this a fine breakfast," exclaimed Mr. Damon, munching
his bacon and eggs, and dipping into his coffee the hard pilot
biscuit, which they had instead of bread. "We're mighty lucky to be
eating at all, I suppose."

"Indeed we are," chimed in Mr. Fenwick.

"I'm awfully sorry the airship is wrecked, though," spoke Tom. "I
suppose it's my fault. I should have turned back before we got over
the ocean, and while the storm was not at its height. I saw that the
wind was freshening, but I never supposed it would grow to a gale so
suddenly. The poor old WHIZZER--there's not much left of her!"

"Now don't distress yourself in the least," insisted Mr. Fenwick.
"I'm proud to have built a ship that could navigate at all. I see
where I made lots of mistakes, and as soon as I get back to
Philadelphia, I'm going to build a better one, if you'll help me,
Tom Swift."

"I certainly will," promised the young inventor.

"And I'll take a voyage with you!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my
teaspoon, Tom, but will you kindly pass the bacon and eggs again!"

There was a jolly laugh at the eccentric man, in which he himself
joined, and the little party felt better. They were seated on bits
of broken boxes taken from the wreck, forming a little circle about
the gasolene stove, which Tom had set up on the beach. The wind had
almost entirely died away, though the sea was still heaving in great
billows, and masses of surf.

They had no exact idea of the time, for all their watches had
stopped when the shock of the wreck came, but presently the sun
peeped out from the clouds, and, from knowing the time when they had
begun to fall, they judged it was about ten o'clock, and accordingly
set their timepieces.

"Well," observed Tom, as he collected the dishes, which they had
also secured from the wreck, "we must begin to think about a place
to spend the night. I think we can rig up a shelter from some of the
canvas of the wing-planes, and from what is left of the cabin. It
doesn't need to be very heavy, for from the warmth of the
atmosphere, I should say we were pretty well south."

It was quite warm, now that the storm was over, and, as they looked
at the vegetation of the island, they saw that it was almost wholly
tropical.

"I shouldn't be surprised if we were on one of the smaller of the
West Indian islands," said Tom. "We certainly came far enough,
flying a hundred miles or more an hour, to have reached them. But
this one doesn't appear to be inhabited."

"We haven't been all over it yet," said Mr. Damon. "We may find
cannibals on the other side."

"Cannibals don't live in this part of the world," Tom assured him.
"No, I think this island is practically unknown. The storm brought
us here, and it might have landed us in a worse place."

As he spoke he thought of the yacht RESOLUTE, and he wondered how
her passengers, including the parents of Mary Nestor, had fared
during the terrible blow.

"I hope they weren't wrecked, as we were," mused Tom.

But there was little time for idle thoughts. If they were going to
build a shelter, they knew that they must speedily get at it.
Accordingly, with a feeling of thankfulness that their lives had
been spared, they set to work taking apart such of the wreck as
could the more easily be got at.

Boards, sticks, and planks were scattered about, and, with the
pieces of canvas from the wing-planes, and some spare material which
was carried on board, they soon had a fairly good shack, which would
be protection enough in that warm climate.

Next they got out the food and supplies, their spare clothing and
other belongings, few of which had been harmed in the fall from the
clouds. These things were piled under another rude shelter which
they constructed.

By this time it was three o'clock, and they ate again. Then they
prepared to spend the night in their hastily made camp. They
collected driftwood, with which to make a fire, and, after supper,
which was prepared on the gasolene stove, they sat about the
cheerful blaze, discussing their adventures.

"To-morrow we will explore the island," said Tom, as he rolled
himself up in his blankets and turned over to sleep. The others
followed his example, for it was decided that no watch need be kept.
Thus passed several hours in comparative quiet.

It must have been about midnight that Tom was suddenly awakened by a
feeling as if someone was shaking him. He sat up quickly and called
out:

"What's the matter?"

"Eh? What's that? Bless my soul! What's going on?" shouted Mr.
Damon.

"Did you shake me?" inquired Tom.

"I? No. What--?"

Then they realized that another earth-tremor was making the whole
island tremble.

Tom leaped from his blankets, followed by Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick,
and rushed outside the shack. They felt the earth shaking, but it
was over in a few seconds. The shock was a slight one, nothing like
as severe as the one in the morning. But it set their nerves on
edge.

"Another earthquake!" groaned Mr. Damon. "How often are we to have
them?"

"I don't know," answered Tom, soberly.

They passed the remainder of the night sleeping in blankets on the
warm sands, near the fire, for they feared lest a shock might bring
the shack down about their heads. However, the night passed with no
more terrors.




CHAPTER XV

THE OTHER CASTAWAYS


"Well, we're all alive, at any rate," announced Tom, when the bright
sun, shining into his eyes, had awakened him. He sat up, tossed
aside his blankets, and stood up. The day was a fine one, and the
violence of the sea had greatly subsided during the night, their
shack had suffered not at all from the slight shock in the darkness.

"Now for a dip in old Briney," the lad added, as he walked down to
the surf, "I think it will make me feel better."

"I'm with you," added Mr. Fenwick, and Mr. Damon also joined the
bathers. They came up from the waves, tingling with health, and
their bruises and bumps, including Tom's cut leg, felt much better.

"You did get quite a gash; didn't you," observed Mr. Fenwick, as he
noticed Tom's leg. "Better put something on it. I have antiseptic
dressings and bandages in the airship, if we can find them."

"I'll look for them, after breakfast," Tom promised, and following a
fairly substantial meal, considering the exigencies under which it
was prepared, he got out the medicine chest, of which part remained
in the wreck of the WHIZZER, and dressed his wound. He felt much
better after that.

"Well, what's our program for to-day?" Mr. Damon wanted to know, as
they sat about, after they had washed up what few dishes they used.

"Let's make a better house to stay in," proposed Mr. Fenwick. "We
may have to remain here for some time, and I'd like a more
substantial residence."

"I think the one we now have will do," suggested Tom. "I was going
to propose making it even less substantial."

"Why so?"

"Because, in the event of an earthquake, while we are sleeping in
it, we will not be injured. Made of light pieces of wood and canvas
it can't harm us very much if it falls on us."

"That's right," agreed Mr. Damon. "In earthquake countries all the
houses are low, and built of light materials."

"Ha! So I recollect now," spoke Mr. Fenwick. "I used to read that in
my geography, but I never thought it would apply to me. But do you
think we will be subject to the quakes?"

"I'm afraid so," was Tom's reply. "We've had two, now, within a
short time, and there is no way of telling when the next will come.
We will hope there won't be any more, but--"

He did not finish his sentence, but the others knew what he meant.
Thereupon they fell to work, and soon had made a shelter that, while
very light and frail, would afford them all the protection needed in
that mild climate, and, at the same time, there would be no danger
should an earthquake collapse it, and bring it down about their
heads while they were sleeping in it.

For they decided that they needed some shelter from the night dews,
as it was exceedingly uncomfortable to rest on the sands even
wrapped in blankets, and with a driftwood fire burning nearby.

It was noon when they had their shack rebuilt to their liking, and
they stopped for dinner. There was quite a variety of stores in the
airship, enough for a much larger party than that of our three
friends, and they varied their meals as much as possible. Of course
all the stuff they had was canned, though there are some salted and
smoked meats. But canned food can be had in a variety of forms
now-a-days, so the castaways did not lack much.

"What do you say to an exploring expedition this afternoon?" asked
Tom, as they sat about after dinner. "We ought to find out what kind
of an island we're on."

"I agree with you," came from Mr. Fenwick. "Perhaps on the other
side we will stand a much better chance of speaking some passing
vessel. I have been watching the horizon for some time, now, but I
haven't seen the sign of a ship."

"All right, then we'll explore, and see what sort of an island we
have taken possession of," went on Tom.

"And see if it isn't already in possession of natives--or
cannibals," suggested Mr. Damon. "Bless my frying pan! but I should
hate to be captured by cannibals at my time of life."

"Don't worry; there are none here," Tom assured him again.

They set out on their journey around the island. They agreed that it
would be best to follow the beach around, as it was easier walking
that way, since the interior of the place consisted of rugged rocks
in a sort of miniature mountain chain.

"We will make a circuit of the place," proposed Tom, "and then, if
we can discover nothing, we'll go inland. The centre of the island
is quite high, and we ought to be able to see in any direction for a
great distance from the topmost peak. We may be able to signal a
vessel."

"I hope so!" cried Mr. Damon. "I want to send word home that I am
all right. My wife will worry when she learns that the airship, in
which I set out, has disappeared."

"I fancy we all would like to send word home," added Mr. Fenwick.
"My wife never wanted me to build this airship, and, now that I have
sailed in it, and have been wrecked, I know she'll say 'I told you
so,' as soon as I get back to Philadelphia."

Tom said nothing, but he thought to himself that it might be some
time before Mrs. Fenwick would have a chance to utter those
significant words to her husband.

Following the beach line, they walked for several miles. The island
was larger than they had supposed, and it soon became evident that
it would take at least a day to get all around it.

"In which case we will need some lunch with us." said Tom. "I think
the best thing we can do now is to return to camp, and get ready for
a longer expedition to-morrow."

Mr. Fenwick was of the same mind, but Mr. Damon called out:

"Let's go just beyond that cliff, and see what sort of a view is to
be had from there. Then we'll turn back."

To oblige him they followed. They had not gone more than a hundred
yards toward the cliff, than there came the preliminary rumbling and
roaring that they had come to associate with an earthquake. At the
same time, the ground began to shiver and shake.

"Here comes another one!" cried Tom, reeling about. He saw Mr. Damon
and Mr. Fenwick topple to the beach. The roaring increased, and the
rumbling was like thunder, close at hand. The island seemed to rock
to its very centre.

Suddenly the whole cliff toward which they had been walking,
appeared to shake itself loose. In another instant it was flung
outward and into the sea, a great mass of rock and stone.

The island ceased trembling, and the roaring stopped. Tom rose to
his feet, followed by his companions. He looked toward the place
where the cliff had been. Its removal by the earthquake gave them a
view of a part of the beach that had hitherto been hidden from them.

And what Tom saw caused him to cry out in astonishment. For he
beheld, gathered around a little fire on the sand, a party of men
and women. Some were standing, clinging to one another in terror.
Some were prostrate on the ground. Others were running to and fro in
bewilderment.

"More castaways!" cried Tom. "More castaways," and, he added under
his breath, "more unfortunates on earthquake island!"




CHAPTER XVI

AN ALARMING THEORY


For a few seconds, following Tom's announcement to his two
companions, neither Mr. Damon nor Mr. Fenwick spoke. They had arisen
from the beach, where the shock of the earthquake had thrown them,
and were now staring toward the other band of castaways, who, in
turn were gazing toward our three friends. There was a violent
agitation in the sea, caused by the fall of the great cliff, and
immense waves rushed up on shore, but all the islanders were beyond
the reach of the rollers.

"Is it--do I really--am I dreaming or not?" at length gasped Mr.
Damon.

"Is this a mirage, or do we really see people, Tom?" inquired Mr.
Fenwick.

"They are real enough people," replied the lad, himself somewhat
dazed by the unexpected appearance of the other castaways.

"But how--why--how did they get here?" went on the inventor of the
WHIZZER.

"As long as they're not cannibals, we're all right," murmured Mr.
Damon. "They seem to be persons like ourselves, Tom."

"They are," agreed the lad, "and they appear to be in the same sort
of trouble as ourselves. Let's go forward, and meet them."

The tremor of the earthquake had now subsided, and the little band
that was gathered about a big fire of driftwood was calmer. Those
who had fallen, or who had thrown themselves on the sand, arose, and
began feeling of their arms and legs to see if they had sustained
any injuries. Others advanced toward our friends.

"Nine of them," murmured Tom, as he counted the little band of
castaways, "and they don't seem to have been able to save much from
the wreck of their craft, whatever it was." The beach all about them
was bare, save for a boat drawn up out of reach of high water.

"Do you suppose they are a party from some disabled airship, Tom,"
asked Mr. Fenwick.

"Not from an airship," answered the lad. "Probably from some vessel
that was wrecked in the gale. But we will soon find out who they
are."

Tom led the way for his two friends. The fall of the cliff had made
a rugged path around the base of it, over rocks, to where the other
people stood. Tom scrambled in and out among the boulders, in spite
of the pain it caused his wounded leg. He was anxious to know who
the other castaways were, and how they had come there.

Several of the larger party were now advancing to meet the lad and
his friends. Tom could see two women and seven men.

A moment later, when the lad had a good view of one of the ladies
and a gentleman, he could not repress a cry of astonishment. Then he
rubbed his eyes to make sure it was not some blur or defect of
vision. No, his first impression had been correct.

"Mr. Nestor!" cried Tom, recognizing the father of his girl friend.
"And Mrs. Nestor!" he added a moment later.

"Why--of all things--look--Amos--it's--it can't be possible--and
yet--why, it's Tom Swift!" cried the lady.

"Tom--Tom Swift--here?" ejaculated the man at her side.

"Yes--Tom Swift--the young inventor--of Shopton--don't you know--the
lad who saved Mary's life in the runaway--Tom Swift!"

"Tom Swift!" murmured Mr. Nestor. "Is it possible!"

"I'm Tom Swift, all right," answered the owner of that name, "but
how in the world did you get on this island, Mr. Nestor?"

"I might ask you the same thing, Tom. The yacht RESOLUTE, on which
we were making a voyage to the West Indies, as guests of Mr. George
Hosbrook, was wrecked in the awful gale. We took to the boats and
managed to reach this island. The yacht sunk, and we only had a
little food. We are almost starved! But how came you here?"

"Mr. Fenwick's airship was wrecked, and we dropped down here. What a
coincidence! To think that I should meet you here! But if you're
hungry, it's the best thing in the world that we met you, for,
though our airship was wrecked, we have a large supply of food. Come
over to our camp, and we'll give you all you want!"

Tom had rushed forward, and was shaking hands with Mary's parents,
so unexpectedly met with, when Mr. Nestor called out:

"Come over here, Mr. Hosbrook. I want you to meet a friend of mine."

A moment later, the millionaire owner of the ill-fated RESOLUTE was
shaking hands with Tom.

"I can't understand it," Mr. Hosbrook said. "To think of meeting
other people on this desolate island--this island of earthquakes."

"Oh, please don't speak of earthquakes!" cried Mrs. Nestor. "We are
in mortal terror! There have been several since we landed in the
most terrible storm day before yesterday. Isn't it awful! It is a
regular earthquake island!"

"That's what I call it," spoke Tom, grimly.

The others of the larger party of refugees now came up. Besides Mr.
and Mrs. Nestor, and Mr. Hosbrook, there was Mr. and Mrs. Floyd
Anderson, friends of the millionaire; Mr. Ralph Parker, who was
spoken of as a scientist, Mr. Barcoe Jenks, who seemed an odd sort
of individual, always looking about suspiciously, Captain Mentor,
who had been in command of the yacht, and Jake Fordam, the mate of
the vessel.

"And are these all who were saved?" asked Tom, as he introduced his
two friends, and told briefly of their air voyage.

"No," answered Mr. Hosbrook, "two other boatloads, one containing
most of the crew, and the other containing some of my guests, got
away before our boat left. I trust they have been rescued, but we
have heard nothing about them. However, our own lives may not long
be safe, if these earthquakes continue."

"But did I understand you to say, Mr. Swift, that you had food?" he
went on. "If you have, I will gladly pay you any price for some,
especially for these two ladies, who must be faint. I have lost all
my ready cash, but if we ever reach civilization, I will--"

"Don't speak of such a thing as pay," interrupted Mr. Fenwick. "All
that we have we'll gladly share with you. Come over to our camp. We
have enough for all, and we can cook on our gasolene stove. Don't
speak of pay, I beg of you."

"Ah--er, if Mr. Hosbrook has no money, perhaps I can offer an
equivalent," broke in the man who had been introduced as Barcoe
Jenks. "I have--er--some securities--" He stopped and looked about
indefinitely, as though he did not know exactly what to say, and he
was fumbling at a belt about his waist; a belt that might contain
treasure.

"Don't speak of reimbursing us," went on Mr. Fenwick, with rather a
suspicious glance at Mr. Jenks. "You are welcome to whatever we
have."

"Bless my topknot; certainly, yes!" joined in Mr. Damon, eagerly.

"Well, I--er--I only spoke of it," said Mr. Jenks, hesitatingly, and
then he turned away. Mr. Hosbrook looked sharply at him, but said
nothing.

"Suppose we go to our camp," proposed Tom. "We may be able to get
you up a good meal, before another earthquake comes."

"I wonder what makes so many of them?" asked Mrs. Nestor, with a
nervous shiver.

"Yes, indeed, they are terrifying! One never knows when to expect
them," added Mrs. Anderson.

"I have a theory about them," said Mr. Parker, the scientist, who,
up to this time had spoken but little.

"A theory?" inquired Tom.

"Yes. This island is one of the smaller of the West Indies group. It
is little known, and has seldom been visited, I believe. But I am
sure that what causes the earthquakes is that the whole island has
been undermined by the sea, and it is the wash of great submarine
waves and currents which cause the tremors."

"Undermined by the sea?" repeated Tom.

"Yes. It is being slowly washed away."

"Bless my soul! Washed away!" gasped Mr. Damon.

"And, in the course of a comparatively short time, it will sink,"
went on the scientist, as cheerfully as though he was a professor
propounding some problem to his class.

"Sink!" ejaculated Mrs. Nestor. "The whole island undermined! Oh,
what an alarming theory!"

"I wish I could hold to a different one, madam," was Mr. Parker's
answer, "but I cannot. I think the island will sink after a few more
shocks."

"Then what good will my--" began Barcoe Jenks, but he stopped in
confusion, and again his hand went to his belt with a queer gesture.




CHAPTER XVII

A MIGHTY SHOCK


Tom Swift turned to gaze at Mr. Barcoe Jenks. That individual
certainly had a strange manner. Perhaps it might be caused by the
terror of the earthquakes, but the man seemed to be trying to hold
back some secret. He was constrained and ill at ease. He saw the
young inventor looking at him, and his hands, which had gone to his
belt, with a spasmodic motion, dropped to his side.

"You don't really mean to say, Parker, that you think the whole
island is undermined, do you?" asked the owner of the RESOLUTE.

"That's my theory. It may be a wrong one, but it is borne out by the
facts already presented to us. I greatly fear for our lives!"

"But what can we do?" cried Mrs. Nestor.

"Nothing," answered the scientist, with a shrug of his shoulders.
"Absolutely nothing, save to wait for it to happen."

"Don't say that!" begged Mrs. Andersen.

"Can't you gentlemen do something--build a boat and take us away.
Why, the boat we came here in--"

"Struck a rock, and stove a hole in the bottom as big as a barrel,
madam," interrupted Captain Mentor. "It would never do to put to sea
in that."

"But can't something else be done?" demanded Mrs. Nestor. "Oh, it is
awful to think of perishing on this terrible earthquake island. Oh,
Amos! Think of it, and Mary home alone! Have you seen her lately,
Mr. Swift?"

Tom told of his visit to the Nestors' home. Our hero was almost in
despair, not so much for himself, as for the unfortunate women of
the party--and one of them was Mary's mother! Yet what could he do?
What chance was there of escaping from the earthquake?

"Bless my gizzard!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Don't let's stand here
worrying! If you folks are hungry come up to our camp. We have
plenty. Afterward we can discuss means of saving ourselves."

"I want to be saved!" exclaimed Mr. Jenks. "I must be saved! I have
a great secret--a secret--"

Once more he paused in confusion, and once more his hands nervously
sought his belt.

"I would give a big reward to be saved," he murmured.

"And so, I fancy, we all would," added Captain Mentor. "But we are
not likely to. This island is out of the track of the regular line
of vessels."

"Where are we, anyhow?" inquired Mr. Fenwick. "What island is this?"

"It isn't down on the charts, I believe," was the captain's reply,
"but we won't be far out, if we call it Earthquake Island. That name
seems to fit it exactly."

They had walked on, while talking, and now had gone past the broken
cliff. Tom and his two friends of the airship led the way to the
camp they had made. On the way, Mr. Hosbrook related how his yacht
had struggled in vain against the tempest, how she had sprung a
leak, how the fires had gone out, and how, helpless in the trough of
the sea, the gallant vessel began to founder. Then they had taken to
the boats, and had, most unexpectedly come upon the island.

"And since we landed we have had very little to eat," said Mrs.
Nestor. "We haven't had a place to sleep, and it has been terrible.
Then, too, the earthquakes! And my husband and I worried so about
Mary. Oh, Mr. Swift! Do you think there is any chance of us ever
seeing her again?"

"I don't know," answered Tom, softly. "I'll do all I can to get us
off this island. Perhaps we can build a raft, and set out. If we
stay here there is no telling what will happen, if that scientist's
theory is correct. But there is our camp, just ahead. You will be
more comfortable, at least for a little while."

In a short time they were at the place where Tom and the others had
built the shack. The ruins of the airship were examined with
interest, and the two women took advantage of the seclusion of the
little hut, to get some much needed rest until a meal should be
ready.

One was soon in course of preparation by Tom and Mr. Damon, aided by
Mate Fordam, of the RESOLUTE. Fortunate it was that Mr. Fenwick had
brought along such a supply of food, for there were now many mouths
to feed.

That the supper (which the meal really was, for it was getting late)
was much enjoyed, goes without saying. The yacht castaways had
subsisted on what little food had been hurriedly put into the life
boat, as they left the vessel.

At Tom's request, while it was yet light, Captain Mentor and some of
the men hunted for a spring of fresh water, and found one, for, with
the increase in the party, the young inventor saw the necessity for
more water. The spring gave promise of supplying a sufficient
quantity.

There was plenty of material at hand for making other shacks, and
they were soon in course of construction. They were made light, as
was the one Tom and his friends first built, so that, in case of
another shock, no one would be hurt seriously. The two ladies were
given the larger shack, and the men divided themselves between two
others that were hastily erected on the beach. The remainder of the
food and stores was taken from the wreck of the airship, and when
darkness began to fall, the camp was snug and comfortable, a big
fire of driftwood burning brightly.

"Oh, if only we can sleep without being awakened by an earthquake!"
exclaimed Mrs. Nestor, as she prepared to go into the shack with
Mrs. Anderson. "But I am almost afraid to close my eyes!"

"If it would do any good to stay up and watch, to tell you when one
was coming, I'd do so," spoke Tom, with a laugh, "but they come
without warning."

However, the night did pass peacefully, and there was not the least
tremor of the island. In the morning the castaways took courage and,
after breakfast, began discussing their situation more calmly.

"It seems to me that the only solution is to build some sort of a
raft, or other craft and leave the island," said Mr. Fenwick.

"Bless my hair brush!" cried Mr. Damon. "Why can't we hoist a signal
of distress, and wait for some steamer to see it and call for us? It
seems to me that would be more simple than going to sea on a raft. I
don't like the idea."

"A signal would be all right, if this island was in the path of the
steamers," said Captain Mentor. "But it isn't. Our flag might fly
for a year, and never be seen."

His words seemed to strike coldness to every heart. Tom, who was
looking at the wreck of the airship, suddenly uttered an
exclamation. He sprang to his feet.

"What is it?" demanded Mr. Fenwick. "Does your sore leg hurt you?"

"No, but I have just thought of a plan!" fairly shouted the young
inventor. "I have it! Wait and see if I can work it!"

"Work what?" cried Mr. Damon.

Tom did not get a chance to answer, for, at that moment, there
sounded, at the far end of the island, whence the yacht castaways
had come, a terrific crash. It was accompanied, rather than
followed, by a shaking, trembling and swaying of the ground.

"Another earthquake!" screamed Mrs. Nestor, rushing toward her
husband. The castaways gazed at each other affrighted.

Suddenly, before their eyes, they saw the extreme end of that part
of the island on which they were camping, slip off, and beneath the
foaming waves of the sea, while the echoes of the mighty crash came
to their ears!




CHAPTER XVIII

MR. JENKS HAS DIAMONDS


Stunned, and well-nigh paralyzed by the suddenness of the awful
crash, and the recurrence of the earthquake, the castaways gazed
spell-bound at one another.

Succeeding the disappearance of the end of the island there arose a
great wave in the ocean, caused by the immersion of such a quantity
of rock and dirt.

"Look out!" yelled Tom, "there may be a flood here!"

They realized his meaning, and hastened up the beach, out of reach
of the water if it should come. And it did. At first the ocean
retreated, as though the tide was going out, then, with a rush and
roar, the waves came leaping back, and, had the castaways remained
where they had been standing they would have been swept out to sea.

As it was the flood reached part of the wreck of the airship, that
lay on the beach, and washed away some of the broken planks. But,
after the first rush of water, the sea grew less troubled, and there
was no more danger from that source.

True, the whole island was rumbling and trembling in the throes of
an earthquake, but, by this time, the refugees had become somewhat
used to this, and only the two ladies exhibited any outward signs of
great alarm, though Mr. Barcoe Jenks, Tom observed, was nervously
fingering the belt which he wore about his waist.

"I guess the worst is over," spoke Mr. Fenwick, as they stood
looking toward where part of the island had vanished. "The shock
expended itself on tearing that mass of rock and earth away."

"Let us hope so," added Mr. Hosbrook, solemnly. "Oh, if we could
only get away from this terrible place! We must hoist a signal of
distress, even if we are out of the track of regular vessels. Some
ship, blown out of her course may see it. Captain Mentor, I wish you
and Mr. Fordam would attend to that."

"I will, sir," answered the commander of the ill-fated RESOLUTE.
"The signal shall be hoisted at once. Come on, Mr. Fordam," he
added, turning to the first mate.

"If you don't mind," interrupted Tom, "I wish you would first help
me to get what remains of the airship up out of reach of any more
possible high waves. That one nearly covered it, and if there are
other big rollers, the wreck may be washed out to sea."

"I can't see that any great harm would result from that," put in Mr.
Jenks. "There isn't anything about the wreck that we could use to
make a boat or raft from." Indeed, there was little left of the
airship, save the mass of machinery.

"Well, it may come in handy before we leave here," said Tom, and
there was a quiet determined air about him, that caused Mr. Damon to
look at him curiously. The odd gentleman started to utter one of his
numerous blessings, and to ask Tom a question, but he thought better
of it. By this time the earthquake had ceased, and the castaways
were calmer.

Tom started toward the airship wreck, and began pulling off some
broken boards to get at the electrical machinery.

"I guess you had better give Mr. Swift a hand, Captain Mentor,"
spoke the millionaire yacht owner. "I don't know what good the wreck
can be, but we owe considerable to Mr. Swift and his friends, and
the least we can do is to aid them in anything they ask. So,
Captain, if you don't mind, you and the mate bear a hand. In fact,
we'll all help, and move the wreck so far up that there will be no
danger, even from tidal waves."

Tom looked pleased at this order, and soon he and all the men in the
little party were busy taking out the electrical apparatus, and
moving it farther inland.

"What are you going to do with it, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon, in a low
voice, as he assisted the young inventor to carry a small dynamo,
that was used for operating the incandescent lights.

"I hardly know myself. I have a half-formed plan in my mind. I may
be able to carry it out, and I may not. I don't want to say anything
until I look over the machinery, and see if all the parts which I
need are here. Please say nothing about it."

"Bless my toothpick! Of course, I'll not," promised Mr. Damon.

When the removal of most of the machinery of the wrecked airship had
been completed, Mrs. Nestor exclaimed:

"Well, since you are moving that out of harm's way, don't you think
it would be a good idea to change our camp, also? I'm sure I'll
never sleep a wink, thinking that part of the island may fall into
the ocean at any moment in the night, and create a wave that may
wash us all out to sea. Can't we move the camp, Mr. Swift?"

"No reason why we can't," answered the lad, smiling. "I think it
would be a good plan to take it farther back. We are likely to be
here some time, and, while we are about it, we might build more
complete shelters, and have a few more comforts."

The others agreed with this idea, so the little shacks that had been
erected were taken down, and moved to higher ground, where a better
outlook could be had of the surrounding ocean. At the same time as
safe a place as possible, considering the frequent earthquakes, was
picked out--a place where there were no overhanging rocks or cliffs.

Three huts were built, one for the two ladies, one for the men, and
third where the cooking could be done. This last also held the food
supplies and stores, and Tom noted, with satisfaction, that there
was still sufficient to eat to last over a week. Mr. Fenwick had not
stinted his kitchen stores.

This work done, Captain Mentor and Mate Fordam went to the highest
part of the island, where they erected a signal, made from pieces of
canvas that had been in the life boat. The boat itself was brought
around to the new camp, and at first it was hoped that it could be
repaired, and used. But too large a hole had been stove in the
bottom, so it was broken up, and the planks used in making the
shacks.

This work occupied the better part of two days, and during this
time, there were no more earthquakes. The castaways began to hope
that the island would not be quiet for a while. Mrs. Anderson and
Mrs. Nestor assumed charge of the "housekeeping" arrangements, and
also the cooking, which relieved Tom from those duties. The two
ladies even instituted "wash-day," and when a number of garments
were hung on lines to dry, the camp looked like some summer colony
of pleasure-seekers, out for a holiday.

In the meanwhile, Tom had spent most of his time among the machinery
which had been taken from the airship. He inspected it carefully,
tested some of the apparatus, and made some calculations on a bit of
paper. He seemed greatly pleased over something, and one afternoon,
when he was removing some of the guy and stay wires from the
collapsed frame of the WHIZZER, he was approached by Mr. Barcoe
Jenks.

"Planning something new?" asked Mr. Jenks, with an attempt at
jollity, which, however, failed. The man had a curious air about
him, as if he was carrying some secret that was too much for him.

"Well, nothing exactly new," answered Tom. "At best I am merely
going to try an experiment."

"An experiment, eh?" resumed Mr. Jenks, "And might I ask if it has
anything to do with rescuing us from this island?"

"I hope it will have," answered Tom, gravely.

"Good!" exclaimed Mr. Jenks. "Well, now I have a proposition to make
to you. I suppose you are not very wealthy, Mr. Swift?" He gazed at
Tom, quizzically.

"I am not poor," was the young inventor's proud answer, "but I would
be glad to make more money--legitimately."

"I thought so. Most every one would. Look here!"

He approached closer to Tom, and, pulling his hand from his pocket,
held it extended, in the palm were a number of irregularly-shaped
objects--stones or crystals the lad took them to be, yet they did
not look like ordinary stones or crystals.

"Do you know what those are?" asked Mr. Jenks.

"I might guess," replied Tom.

"I'll save you the trouble. They are diamonds! Diamonds of the very
first water, but uncut. Now to the point. I have half a million
dollars worth of them. If you get me safely off this island, I will
agree to make you a quarter of a million dollars worth of diamonds!"

"Make me a quarter of a million dollars worth of diamonds?" asked
Tom, struck by the use of the work "make."

"Yes, 'make,'" answered Mr. Jenks. "That is if I can discover the
secret--the secret of Phantom Mountain. Get me away from the island
and I will share my knowledge with you--I need help--help to learn
the secret and help to make the diamonds--see, there are some of the
first ones made, but I have been defrauded of my rights--I need the
aid of a young fellow like you. Will you help? See, I'll give you
some diamonds now. They are genuine, though they are not like
ordinary diamonds. I made them. Will you--"

Before Tom could answer, there came a warning rumble of the earth,
and a great fissure opened, almost at the feet of Mr. Jenks, who,
with a cry of fear, leaped toward the young inventor.




CHAPTER XIX

SECRET OPERATIONS


"Help me save this machinery!" yelled Tom, whose first thought was
for the electrical apparatus. "Don't let it fall into that chasm!"

For the crack had widened, until it was almost to the place where
the parts of the wrecked airship had been carried.

"The machinery? What do I care about the machinery?" cried Mr.
Jenks. "I want to save my life!"

"And this machinery is our only hope!" retorted Tom. He began
tugging at the heavy dynamos and gasolene engine, but he might have
saved himself the trouble, for with the same suddenness with which
it opened, the crack closed again. The shock had done it, and, as if
satisfied with that phenomena, the earthquake ceased, and the island
no longer trembled.

"That was a light one," spoke Tom, with an air of relief. He was
becoming used to the shocks now, and, when he saw that his precious
machinery was not damaged he could view the earth tremors calmly.

"Slight!" exclaimed Mr. Jenks. "Well, I don't call it so. But I see
Captain Mentor and Mr. Hosbrook coming. Please don't say anything to
them about the diamonds. I'll see you again," and with that, the
queer Mr. Jenks walked away.

"We came to see if you were hurt," called the captain, as he neared
the young inventor.

"No, I'm all right. How about the others?"

"Only frightened," replied the yacht owner. "This is getting awful.
I hoped we were free from the shocks, but they still continue."

"And I guess they will," added Tom. "We certainly are on Earthquake
Island!"

"Mr. Parker, the scientist, says this last shock bears out his
theory," went on the millionaire. "He says it will be only a
question of a few days when the whole island will disappear."

"Comforting, to say the least," commented Tom.

"I should say so. But what are you doing, Mr. Swift?"

"Trying an experiment," answered the young inventor, in some
confusion. He was not yet ready to talk about his plans.

"We must begin to think seriously of building some sort of a boat or
raft, and getting away from the island," went on the millionaire.
"It will be perilous to go to sea with anything we can construct,
but it is risking our lives to stay here. I don't know what to do."

"Perhaps Captain Mentor has some plan," suggested Tom, hoping to
change the subject.

"No," answered the commander, "I confess I am at a loss to know what
to do. There is nothing with which to do anything, that is the
trouble! But I did think of hoisting another signal, on this end of
the island, where it might be seen if our first one wasn't. I
believe I'll do that," and he moved away, to carry out his
intention.

"Well, I think I'll get back, Tom, and tell the others that you are
all right," spoke Mr. Hosbrook. "I left the camp, after the shock,
because Mrs. Nestor was worried about you." The place to which the
airship machinery had been removed was some distance from the camp,
and out of sight of the shacks.

"Oh, yes. I'm all right," said Tom. Then, with a sudden impulse, he
asked:

"Do you know much about this Mr. Barcoe Jenks, Mr. Hosbrook?"

"Not a great deal," was the reply. "In fact, I may say I do not know
him at all. Why do you ask?"

"Because I thought he acted rather strangely."

"Just what the rest of us think," declared the yacht owner. "He is
no friend of mine, though he was my guest on the RESOLUTE. It came
about in this way. I had invited a Mr. Frank Jackson to make the
trip with me, and he asked if he could bring with him a Mr. Jenks, a
friend of his. I assented, and Mr. Jackson came aboard with Mr.
Jenks. Just as we were about to sail Mr. Jackson received a message
requiring his presence in Canada, and he could not make the trip."

"But Mr. Jenks seemed so cut-up about being deprived of the yachting
trip, and was so fond of the water, that I invited him to remain on
board, even if his friend did not. So that is how he came to be
among my guests, though he is a comparative stranger to all of us."

"I see," spoke Tom.

"Has he been acting unusually strange?" asked Mr. Hosbrook
suspiciously.

"No, only he seemed very anxious to get off the island, but I
suppose we all are. He wanted to know what I planned to do."

"Did you tell him?"

"No, for the reason that I don't know whether I can succeed or not,
and I don't want to raise false hopes."

"Then you would prefer not to tell any of us?"

"No one--that is except Mr. Fenwick and Mr. Damon. I may need them
to help me."

"I see," responded Mr. Hosbrook. "Well, whatever it is, I wish you
luck. It is certainly a fearful place--this island," and busy with
many thoughts, which crowded upon him, the millionaire moved away,
leaving Tom alone.

A little while after this Tom might have been seen in close
conversation with Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick. The former, on hearing
what the young inventor had to say, blessed himself and his various
possessions so often, that he seemed to have gotten out of breath.
Mr. Fenwick exclaimed:

"Tom, if you can work that it will be one of the greatest things you
have ever done!"

"I hope I can work it," was all the young inventor replied.

For the next three days Tom, and his two friends, spent most of
their time in the neighborhood of the pile of machinery and
apparatus taken from the wrecked WHIZZER. Mr. Jenks hung around the
spot, but a word or two from Mr. Hosbrook sent him away, and our
three friends were left to their work in peace, for they were
inclined to be secretive about their operations, as Tom did not want
his plans known until he was ready.

The gasolene motor was overhauled, and put in shape to work. Then it
was attached to the dynamo. When this much had been done, Tom and
his friends built a rude shack around the machinery shutting it from
view.

"Humph! Are you afraid we will steal it?" asked Mr. Parker, the
scientist, who held to his alarming theory regarding the ultimate
disappearance of the island.

"No, I simply want to protect it from the weather," answered Tom.
"You will soon know all our plans. I think they will work out."

"You'd better do it before we get another earthquake, and the island
sinks," was the dismal response.

But there had been no shocks since the one that nearly engulfed Mr.
Jenks. As for that individual he said little to any one, and
wandered off alone by himself. Tom wondered what kind of diamonds
they were that the odd man had, and the lad even had his doubts as
to the value of the queer stones he had seen. But he was too busy
with his work to waste much time in idle speculation.




CHAPTER XX

THE WIRELESS PLANT


The castaways had been on Earthquake Island a week now, and in that
time had suffered many shocks. Some were mere tremors, and some were
so severe as to throw whole portions of the isle into the sea. They
never could tell when a shock was coming, and often one awakened
them in the night.

But, in spite of this, the refugees were as cheerful as it was
possible to be under the circumstances. Only Mr. Jenks seemed
nervous and ill at ease, and he kept much by himself.

As for Tom, Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick, the three were busy in their
shack. The others had ceased to ask questions about what they were
doing, and Mr. Nestor and his wife took it for granted that Tom was
building a boat.

Captain Mentor and the mate spent much time gazing off to sea,
hoping for a sight of the sail of some vessel, or the haze that
would indicate the smoke of a steamer. But they saw nothing.

"I haven't much hope of sighting anything," the captain said. "I
know we are off the track of the regular liners, and our only chance
would be that some tramp steamer, or some ship blown off her course,
would see our signal. I tell you, friends, we're in a bad way."

"If money was any object--," began Mr. Jenks.

"What good would money be?" demanded Mr. Hosbrook. "What we need to
do is to get a message to some one--some of my friends--to send out
a party to rescue us."

"That's right," chimed in Mr. Parker, the scientist. "And the
message needs to go off soon, if we are to be saved."

"Why so?" asked Mr. Anderson.

"Because I think this island will sink inside of a week!"

A scream came from the two ladies.

"Why don't you keep such thoughts to yourself?" demanded the
millionaire yacht owner, indignantly.

"Well, it's true," stubbornly insisted the scientist.

"What if it is? It doesn't do any good to remind us of it."

"Bless my gizzard, no!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Suppose we have
dinner. I'm hungry."

That seemed to be his remedy for a number of ills.

"If we only could get a message off, summoning help, it WOULD be the
very thing," sighed Mrs. Nestor. "Oh, how I wish I could send my
daughter, Mary, word of where we are. She may hear of the wreck of
the RESOLUTE, and worry herself to death."

"But it is out of the question to send a message for help from
Earthquake Island," added Mrs. Anderson. "We are totally cut off
from the rest of the world here."

"Perhaps not," spoke Tom Swift, quietly. He had come up silently,
and had heard the conversation.

"What's that you said?" cried Mr. Nestor, springing to his feet, and
crossing the sandy beach toward the lad.

"I said perhaps we weren't altogether cut off from the rest of the
world," repeated Tom.

"Why not," demanded Captain Mentor. "You don't mean to say that you
have been building a boat up there in your little shack, do you?"

"Not a boat," replied Tom, "but I think I have a means of sending
out a call for help!"

"Oh, Tom--Mr. Swift--how?" exclaimed Mrs. Nestor. "Do you mean we
can send a message to my Mary?"

"Well, not exactly to her," answered the young inventor, though he
wished that such a thing were possible. "But I think I can summon
help."

"How?" demanded Mr. Hosbrook. "Have you managed to discover some
cable line running past the island, and have you tapped it?"

"Not exactly." was Tom's calm answer, "but I have succeeded, with
the help of Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick, in building an apparatus that
will send out wireless messages!"

"Wireless messages!" gasped the millionaire. "Are you sure?"

"Wireless messages!" exclaimed Mr. Jenks. "I'll give--" He paused,
clasped his hands on his belt, and turned away.

"Oh, Tom!" cried Mrs. Nestor, and she went up to the lad, threw her
arms about his neck, and kissed him; whereat Tom blushed.

"Perhaps you'd better explain," suggested Mr. Anderson.

"I will," said the lad. "That is the secret we have been engaged
upon--Mr. Damon, Mr. Fenwick and myself. We did not want to say
anything about it until we were sure we could succeed."

"And are you sure now?" asked Captain Mentor.

"Fairly so."

"How could you build a wireless station?" inquired Mr. Hosbrook.

"From the electrical machinery that was in the wrecked WHIZZER,"
spoke Tom. "Fortunately, that was not damaged by the shock of the
fall, and I have managed to set up the gasolene engine, and attach
the dynamo to it so that we can generate a powerful current. We also
have a fairly good storage battery, though that was slightly damaged
by the fall."

"I have just tested the machinery, and I think we can send out a
strong enough message to carry at least a thousand miles."

"Then that will reach some station, or some passing ship," murmured
Captain Mentor. "There is a chance that we may be saved."

"If it isn't too late," gloomily murmured the scientist. "There is
no telling when the island will disappear beneath the sea."

But they were all so interested in Tom's announcement that they paid
little attention to this dire foreboding.

"Tell us about it," suggested Mr. Nestor. And Tom did.

He related how he had set up the dynamo and gasolene engine, and
how, by means of the proper coils and other electrical apparatus,
all of which, fortunately, was aboard the WHIZZER, he could produce
a powerful spark.

"I had to make a key out of strips of brass, to produce the Morse
characters," the lad said. "This took considerable time, but it
works, though it is rather crude. I can click out a message with
it."

"That may be," said Mr. Hosbrook, who had been considering
installing a wireless plant on his yacht, and who, therefore, knew
something about it, "you may send a message, but can you receive an
answer?"

"I have also provided for that," replied Tom. "I have made a
receiving instrument, though that is even more crude than the
sending plant, for it had to be delicately adjusted, and I did not
have just the magnets, carbons, coherers and needles that I needed.
But I think it will work."

"Did you have a telephone receiver to use?"

"Yes. There was a small interior telephone arrangement on Mr.
Fenwick's airship, and part of that came in handy. Oh, I think I can
hear any messages that may come in answer to ours."

"But what about the aerial wires for sending and receiving
messages?" asked Mr. Nestor.

"Don't you have to have several wires on a tall mast?"

"Yes, and that is the last thing to do," declared Tom. "I need all
your help in putting up those wires. That tall tree on the crest of
the island will do," and he pointed to a dead palm that towered
gaunt and bare like a ship's mast, on a pile of rocks in the centre
of Earthquake Island.




CHAPTER XXI

MESSAGES INTO SPACE


Tom Swift's announcement of the practical completion of his wireless
plant brought hope to the discouraged hearts of the castaways. They
crowded about him, and asked all manner of questions.

Mr. Fenwick and Mr. Damon came in for their share of attention, for
Tom said had it not been for the aid of his friends he never could
have accomplished what he did. Then they all trooped up to the
little shack, and inspected the plant.

As the young inventor had said, it was necessarily crude, but when
he set the gasolene motor going, and the dynamo whizzed and hummed,
sending out great, violet-hued sparks, they were all convinced that
the young inventor had accomplished wonders, considering the
materials at his disposal.

"But it's going to be no easy task to rig up the sending and
receiving wires," declared Tom. "That will take some time."

"Have you got the wire?" asked Mr. Jenks.

"I took it from the stays of the airship," was Tom's reply, and he
recalled the day he was at that work, when the odd man had exhibited
the handful of what he said were diamonds. Tom wondered if they
really were, and he speculated as to what might be the secret of
Phantom Mountain, to which Mr. Jenks had referred.

But now followed a busy time for all. Under the direction of the
young inventor, they began to string the wires from the top of the
dead tree, to a smaller one, some distance away, using five wires,
set parallel, and attached to a wooden spreader, or stay. The wires
were then run to the dynamo, and the receiving coil, and the
necessary ground wires were installed.

"But I can't understand how you are going to do it," said Mrs.
Nestor. "I've read about wireless messages, but I can't get it
through my head. How is it done, Mr. Swift?"

"The theory is very simple," said the young inventor. "To send a
message by wire, over a telegraph system, a battery or dynamo is
used. This establishes a current over wires stretched between two
points. By means of what is called a 'key' this current is
interrupted, or broken, at certain intervals, making the sounding
instrument send out clicks. A short click is called a dot, and a
long click a dash. By combinations of dots, dashes, and spaces
between the dots and dashes, letters are spelled out. For instance,
a dot and a space and a dash, represent the letter 'A' and so on."

"I understand so far," admitted Mrs. Nestor.

"In telegraphing without wires," went on Tom, "the air is used in
place of a metallic conductor, with the help of the earth, which in
itself is a big magnet, or a battery, as you choose to regard it.
The earth helps to establish the connection between places where
there are no wires, when we 'ground' certain conductors."

"To send a wireless message a current is generated by a dynamo. The
current flows along until it gets to the ends of the sending wires,
which we have just strung. Then it leaps off into space, so to
speak, until it reaches the receiving wires, wherever they may be
erected. That is why any wireless receiving station, within a
certain radius, can catch any messages that may be flying through
the air--that is unless certain apparatus is tuned, or adjusted, to
prevent this."

"Well, once the impulses, or electric currents, are sent out into
space, all that is necessary to do is to break, or interrupt them at
certain intervals, to make dots, dashes and spaces. These make
corresponding clicks in the telephone receiver which the operator at
the receiving station wears on his ear. He hears the code of clicks,
and translates them into letters, the letters into words and the
words into sentences. That is how wireless messages are sent."

"And do you propose to send some that way?" asked Mrs. Anderson.

"I do," replied Tom, with a smile.

"Where to?" Mrs. Nestor wanted to know.

"That's what I can't tell," was Tom's reply. "I will have to project
them off into space, and trust to chance that some listening
wireless operator will 'pick them up,' as they call it, and send us
aid."

"But are wireless operators always listening?" asked Mr. Nestor.

"Somewhere, some of them are--I hope," was Tom's quiet answer. "As I
said, we will have to trust much to chance. But other people have
been saved by sending messages off into space; and why not we?
Sinking steamers have had their passengers taken off when the
operator called for help, merely by sending a message into space."

"But how can we tell them where to come for us--on this unknown
island?" inquired Mrs. Anderson.

"I fancy Captain Mentor can supply our longitude and latitude,"
answered Tom. "I will give that with every message I send out, and
help may come--some day."

"It can't come any too quick for me!" declared Mr. Damon. "Bless my
door knob, but my wife must be worrying about my absence!"

"What message for help will you send?" Captain Mentor wanted to
know.

"I am going to use the old call for aid," was the reply of the young
inventor. "I shall flash into space the three letters 'C.Q.D.' They
stand for 'Come Quick--Danger.' A new code call has been instituted
for them, but I am going to rely on the old one, as, in this part of
the world, the new one may not be so well understood. Then I will
follow that by giving our position in the ocean, as nearly as
Captain Mentor can figure it out. I will repeat this call at
intervals until we get help--"

"Or until the island sinks," added the scientist, grimly.

"Here! Don't mention that any more," ordered Mr. Hosbrook. "It's
getting on my nerves! We may be rescued before that awful calamity
overtakes us."

"I don't believe so," was Mr. Parker's reply, and he actually seemed
to derive pleasure from his gloomy prophecy.

"It's lucky you understand wireless telegraphy, Tom Swift," said Mr.
Nestor admiringly, and the other joined in praising the young
inventor, until, blushing, he hurried off to make some adjustments
to his apparatus.

"Can you compute our longitude and latitude, Captain Mentor," asked
the millionaire yacht owner.

"I think so," was the reply. "Not very accurately, of course, for
all my papers and instruments went down in the RESOLUTE. But near
enough for the purpose, I fancy. I'll get right to work at it, and
let Mr. Swift have it."

"I wish you would. The sooner we begin calling for help the better.
I never expected to be in such a predicament as this, but it is
wonderful how that young fellow worked out his plan of rescue. I
hope he succeeds."

It took some little time for the commander to figure their position,
and then it was only approximate. But at length he handed Tom a
piece of paper with the latitude and longitude written on it.

In the meanwhile, the young inventor had been connecting up his
apparatus. The wires were now all strung, and all that was necessary
was to start the motor and dynamo.

A curious throng gathered about the little shack as Tom announced
that he was about to flash into space the first message calling for
help. He took his place at the box, to which had been fastened the
apparatus for clicking off the Morse letters.

"Well, here we go," he said, with a smile.

His fingers clasped the rude key he had fashioned from bits of brass
and hard rubber. The motor was buzzing away, and the electric dynamo
was purring like some big cat.

Just as Tom opened the circuit, to send the current into the
instrument, there came an ominous rumbling of the earth.

"Another quake!" screamed Mrs. Anderson. But it was over in a
second, and calmness succeeded the incipient panic.

Suddenly, overhead, there sounded a queer crackling noise, a
vicious, snapping, as if from some invisible whips.

"Mercy! What's that?" cried Mrs. Nestor.

"The wireless," replied Tom, quietly. "I am going to send a message
for help, off into space. I hope some one receives it--and answers,"
he added, in a low tone.

The crackling increased. While they gathered about him, Tom Swift
pressed the key, making and breaking the current until he had sent
out from Earthquake Island the three letters--"C.Q.D." And he
followed them by giving their latitude and longitude. Over and over
again he flashed out this message.

Would it be answered? Would help come? If so, from where? And if so,
would it be in time? These were questions that the castaways asked
themselves. As for Tom, he sat at the key, clicking away, while,
overhead, from the wires fastened to the dead tree, flashed out the
messages.




CHAPTER XXII

ANXIOUS DAYS


After the first few minutes of watching Tom click out the messages,
the little throng of castaways that had gathered about the shack,
moved away. The matter had lost its novelty for them, though, of
course, they were vitally interested in the success of Tom's
undertaking. Only Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick remained with the young
inventor, for he needed help, occasionally, in operating the dynamo,
or in adjusting the gasolene motor. Mrs. Nestor, who, with Mrs.
Anderson, was looking after the primitive housekeeping arrangements,
occasionally strolled up the hill to the little shed.

"Any answer yet, Mr. Swift?" she would ask.

"No." was the reply. "We can hardly expect any so soon," and Mrs.
Nestor would depart, with a sigh.

Knowing that his supply of gasolene was limited, Tom realized that
he could not run the dynamo steadily, and keep flashing the wireless
messages into space. He consulted with his two friends on the
subject, and Mr. Damon said:

"Well, the best plan, I think, would be only to send out the flashes
over the wires at times when other wireless operators will be on the
lookout, or, rather, listening. There is no use wasting our fuel. We
can't get any more here."

"That's true," admitted Tom, "but how can we pick out any certain
time, when we can be sure that wireless operators, within a zone of
a thousand miles, will be listening to catch clicks which call for
help from the unknown?"

"We can't," decided Mr. Fenwick. "The only thing to do is to trust
to chance. If there was only some way so you would not have to be on
duty all the while, and could send out messages automatically, it
would be good."

Tom shook his head. "I have to stay here to adjust the apparatus,"
he said. "It works none too easily as it is, for I didn't have just
what I needed from which to construct this station. Anyhow, even if
I could rig up something to click out 'C.Q.D.' automatically, I
could hardly arrange to have the answer come that way. And I want to
be here when the answer comes."

"Have you any plan, then?" asked Mr. Damon. "Bless my shoe laces!
there are enough problems to solve on this earthquake island."

"I thought of this," said Tom. "I'll send out our call for help from
nine to ten in the morning. Then I'll wait, and send out another
call from two to three in the afternoon. Around seven in the evening
I'll try again, and then about ten o'clock at night, before going to
bed."

"That ought to be sufficient," agreed Mr. Fenwick. "Certainly we
must save our gasolene, for there is no telling how long we may have
to stay here, and call for help."

"It won't be long if that scientist Parker has his way," spoke Mr.
Damon, grimly. "Bless my hat band, but he's a MOST uncomfortable man
to have around; always predicting that the island is going to sink!
I hope we are rescued before that happens."

"I guess we all do," remarked Mr. Fenwick. "But, Tom, here is
another matter. Have you thought about getting an answer from the
unknown--from some ship or wireless station, that may reply to your
calls? How can you tell when that will come in?"

"I can't."

"Then won't you or some of us, have to be listening all the while?"

"No, for I think an answer will come only directly after I have sent
out a call, and it has been picked up by some operator. Still there
is a possibility that some operator might receive my message, and
report to his chief, or some one in authority over him, before
replying. In that time I might go away. But to guard against that I
will sleep with the telephone receiver clamped to my ear. Then I can
hear the answer come over the wires, and can jump up and reply."

"Do you mean you will sleep here?" asked Mr. Damon, indicating the
shack where the wireless apparatus was contained.

"Yes," answered Tom, simply.

"Can't we take turns listening for the answer?" inquired Mr.
Fenwick, "and so relieve you?"

"I'm afraid not, unless you understand the Morse code," replied Tom.
"You see there may be many clicks, which result from wireless
messages flying back and forth in space, and my receiver will pick
them up. But they will mean nothing. Only the answer to our call for
help will be of any service to us."

"Do you mean to say that you can catch messages flying back and
forth between stations now?" asked Mr. Fenwick.

"Yes," replied the young inventor, with a smile. "Here, listen for
yourself," and he passed the head-instrument over to the WHIZZER's
former owner. The latter listened a moment.

"All I can hear are some faint clicks," he said.

"But they are a message," spoke Tom. "Wait, I'll translate," and he
put the receiver to his ear. "'STEAMSHIP "FALCON" REPORTS A SLIGHT
FIRE IN HER FORWARD COMPARTMENT,'" said Tom, slowly. "'IT IS UNDER
CONTROL, AND WE WILL PROCEED.'"

"Do you mean to say that was the message you heard?" cried Mr.
Damon. "Bless my soul, I never can understand it!"

"It was part of a message," answered Tom. "I did not catch it all,
nor to whom it was sent."

"But why can't you send a message to that steamship then, and beg
them to come to our aid?" asked Mr. Fenwick. "Even if they have had
a fire, it is out now, and they ought to be glad to save life."

"They would come to our aid, or send," spoke Tom, "but I can not
make their wireless operator pick up our message. Either his
apparatus is not in tune, or in accord with ours, or he is beyond
our zone."

"But you heard him," insisted Mr. Damon.

"Yes, but sometimes it is easier to pick up messages than it is to
send them. However, I will keep on trying."

Putting into operation the plan he had decided on for saving their
supply of gasolene, Tom sent out his messages the remainder of the
day, at the intervals agreed upon. Then the apparatus was shut down,
but the lad paid frequent visits to the shack, and listened to the
clicks of the telephone receiver. He caught several messages, but
they were not in response to his appeals for aid.

That night there was a slight earthquake shock, but no more of the
island fell into the sea, though the castaways were awakened by the
tremors, and were in mortal terror for a while.

Three days passed, days of anxious waiting, during which time Tom
sent out message after message by his wireless, and waited in vain
for an answer. There were three shocks in this interval, two slight,
and one very severe, which last cast into the ocean a great cliff on
the far end of the island. There was a flooding rush of water, but
no harm resulted.

"It is coming nearer," said Mr. Parker.

"What is?" demanded Mr. Hosbrook.

"The destruction of our island. My theory will soon be confirmed,"
and the scientist actually seemed to take pleasure in it.

"Oh, you and your theory!" exclaimed the millionaire in disgust.
"Don't let me hear you mention it again! Haven't we troubles
enough?" whereat Mr. Parker went off by himself, to look at the
place where the cliff had fallen.

Each night Tom slept with the telephone receiver to his ear, but,
though it clicked many times, there was not sounded the call he had
adopted for his station--"E. I."--Earthquake Island. In each appeal
he sent out he had requested that if his message was picked up, that
the answer be preceded by the letters "E.I."

It was on the fourth day after the completion of the wireless
station, that Tom was sending out his morning calls. Mrs. Nestor
came up the little hill to the shack where Tom was clicking away.

"No replies yet, I suppose?" she inquired, and there was a hopeless
note in her voice.

"None yet, but they may come any minute," and Tom tried to speak
cheerfully.

"I certainly hope so," added Mary's mother, "But I came up more
especially now, Mr. Swift, to inquire where you had stored the rest
of the food."

"The rest of the food?"

"Yes, the supply you took from the wrecked airship. We have used up
nearly all that was piled in the improvised kitchen, and we'll have
to draw on the reserve supply."

"The reserve," murmured Tom.

"Yes, there is only enough in the shack where Mrs. Anderson and I do
the cooking, to last for about two days. Isn't there any more?"

Tom did not answer. He saw the drift of the questioning. Their food
was nearly gone, yet the castaways from the RESOLUTE thought there
was still plenty. As a matter of fact there was not another can,
except those in the kitchen shack.

"Get out wherever there is left some time to-day, if you will, Mr.
Swift," went on Mrs. Nestor, as she turned away, "and Mrs. Anderson
and I will see if we can fix up some new dishes for you men-folks."

"Oh--all right," answered Tom, weakly.

His hand dropped from the key of the instrument. He sat staring into
space. Food enough for but two days more, with earthquakes likely to
happen at any moment, and no reply yet to his appeals for aid! Truly
the situation was desperate. Tom shook his head. It was the first
time he had felt like giving up.




CHAPTER XXIII

A REPLY IN THE DARK


The young inventor looked out of the wireless shack. Down on the
beach he saw the little band of castaways. They were gathered in a
group about Mr. Jenks, who seemed to be talking earnestly to them.
The two ladies were over near the small building that served as a
kitchen.

"More food supplies needed, eh?" mused Tom. "Well, I don't know
where any more is to come from. We've stripped the WHIZZER bare." He
glanced toward what remained of the airship. "I guess we'll have to
go on short rations, until help comes," and, wondering what the
group of men could be talking about, Tom resumed his clicking out of
his wireless message.

He continued to send it into space for several minutes after ten
o'clock, the hour at which he usually stopped for the morning, for
he thought there might be a possible chance that the electrical
impulses would be picked up by some vessel far out at sea, or by
some station operator who could send help.

But there came no answering clicks to the "E. I." station--to
Earthquake Island--and, after a little longer working of the key,
Tom shut down the dynamo, and joined the group on the beach.

"I tell you it's our only chance," Mr. Jenks was saying. "I must get
off this island, and that's the only way we can do it. I have large
interests at stake. If we wait for a reply to this wireless message
we may all be killed, though I appreciate that Mr. Swift is doing
his best to aid us. But it is hopeless!"

"What do you think about it, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon, turning to the
young inventor.

"Think about what?"

"Why Mr. Jenks has just proposed that we build a big raft, and
launch it. He thinks we should leave the island."

"It might be a good idea," agreed the lad, as he thought of the
scant food supply. "Of course, I can't say when a reply will be
received to my calls for aid, and it is best to be prepared."

"Especially as the island may sink any minute," added Mr. Parker.
"If it does, even a raft will be little good, as it may be swamped
in the vortex. I think it would be a good plan to make one, then
anchor it some distance out from the island. Then we can make a
small raft, and paddle out to the big one in a hurry if need be."

"Yes, that's a good idea, too," conceded Tom.

"And we must stock it well with provisions," said Mr. Damon. "Put
plenty of water and food aboard."

"We can't," spoke Tom, quietly.

"Why not?"

"Because we haven't plenty of provisions. That's what I came down to
speak about," and the lad related what Mrs. Nestor had said.

"Then there is but one thing to do," declared Mr. Fenwick.

"What?" asked Captain Mentor.

"We must go on half rations, or quarter rations, if need be. That
will make our supply last longer. And another thing--we must not let
the women folks know. Just pretend that we're not hungry, but take
only a quarter, or at most, not more than a half of what we have
been in the habit of taking. There is plenty of water, thank
goodness, and we may be able to live until help comes."

"Then shall we build the raft?" asked Mr. Hosbrook.

It was decided that this would be a good plan, and they started it
that same day. Trees were felled, with axes and saws that had been
aboard the WHIZZER, and bound together, in rude fashion, with strong
trailing vines from the forest. A smaller raft, as a sort of ferry,
was also made.

This occupied them all that day, and part of the next. In the
meanwhile, Tom continued to flash out his appeals for help, but no
answers came. The men cut down their rations, and when the two
ladies joked them on their lack of appetite, they said nothing. Tom
was glad that Mrs. Nestor did not renew her request to him to get
out the reserve food supply from what remained in the wreck of the
airship. Perhaps Mr. Nestor had hinted to her the real situation.

The large raft was towed out into a quiet bay of the island, and
anchored there by means of a heavy rock, attached to a rope. On
board were put cans of water, which were lashed fast, but no food
could be spared to stock the rude craft. All the castaways could
depend on, was to take with them, in the event of the island
beginning to sink, what rations they had left when the final shock
should come.

This done, they could only wait, and weary was that waiting. Tom
kept faithfully to his schedule, and his ear ached from the constant
pressure of the telephone receiver. He heard message after message
flash through space, and click on his instrument, but none of them
was in answer to his. On his face there came a grim and hopeless
look.

One afternoon, a week following the erection of the wireless
station, Mate Fordam came upon a number of turtles. He caught some,
by turning them over on their backs, and also located a number of
nests of eggs under the warm sands.

"This will be something to eat," he said, joyfully, and indeed the
turtles formed a welcome food supply. Some fish were caught, and
some clams were cast up by the tide, all of which eked out the
scanty food supply that remained. The two ladies suspected the truth
now and they, too, cut down their allowance.

Tom, who had been sitting with the men in their sleeping shack, that
evening, rose, as the hour of ten approached. It was time to send
out the last message of the night, and then he would lie down on an
improvised couch, with the telephone receiver clamped to his ear, to
wait, in the silence of the darkness, for the message saying that
help was on the way.

"Well, are you off?" asked Mr. Damon, kindly. "I wish some of us
could relieve you, Tom."

"Oh, I don't mind it," answered the lad "Perhaps the message may
come to-night."

Hardly had he spoken than there sounded the ominous rumble and
shaking that presaged another earthquake. The shack rocked, and
threatened to come down about their heads.

"We must be doomed!" cried Mr. Parker. "The island is about to sink!
Make for the raft!"

"Wait and see how bad it is," counseled Mr. Hosbrook. "It may be
only a slight shock."

Indeed, as he spoke, the trembling of the island ceased, and there
was silence. The two ladies, who had retired to their own private
shack, ran out screaming, and Mr. Anderson and Mr. Nestor hastened
over to be with their wives.

"I guess it's passed over," spoke Mr. Fenwick.

An instant later there came another tremor, but it was not like that
of an earthquake shock. It was more like the rumble and vibration of
an approaching train.

"Look!" cried Tom, pointing to the left. Their gaze went in that
direction, and, under the light of a full moon they saw, sliding
into the sea, a great portion of one of the rocky hills.

"A landslide!" cried Captain Mentor. "The island is slowly breaking
up."

"It confirms my theory!" said Mr. Parker, almost in triumph.

"Forget your theory for a while, Parker, please," begged Mr.
Hosbrook. "We're lucky to have left a place on which to stand! Oh,
when will we be rescued?" he asked hopelessly.

The worst seemed to be over at least for the present, and, learning
that the two ladies were quieted, Tom started up the hill to his
wireless station. Mr. Damon and Mr. Fenwick went with him, to aid in
starting the motor and dynamo. Then, after the message had been
clicked out as usual Tom would begin his weary waiting.

They found that the earthquake shock had slightly disturbed the
apparatus, and it took them half an hour to adjust it. As there had
been a delay on account of the landslide, it was eleven o'clock
before Tom began sending out any flashes, and he kept it up until
midnight. But there came no replies, so he shut off the power, and
prepared to get a little rest.

"It looks pretty hopeless; doesn't it?" said Mr. Fenwick, as he and
Mr. Damon were on their way back to the sleeping shack.

"Yes, it does. Our signal hasn't been seen, no ships have passed
this way, and our wireless appeal isn't answered. It does look
hopeless but, do you know, I haven't given up yet."

"Why not?"

"Because I have faith in Tom Swift's luck!" declared the eccentric
man. "If you had been with him as much as I have, up in the air, and
under the water, and had seen the tight places he has gotten out of,
you'd feel the same, too!"

"Perhaps, but here there doesn't seem to be anything to do. It all
depends on some one else."

"That's all right. You leave it to Tom. He'll get an answer yet, you
see if he doesn't."

 It was an hour past midnight. Tom tossed uneasily on the hard bed
in the wireless shack. The telephone receiver on his ear hurt him,
and he could not sleep.

"I may as well sit up for a while," he told himself, and he arose.
In the dimness of the shack he could see the outlines of the dynamo
and the motor.

"Guess I'll start her up, and send out some calls," he murmured. "I
might just happen to catch some ship operator who is up late. I'll
try it."

The young inventor started the motor, and soon the dynamo was
purring away. He tested the wireless apparatus. It shot out great
long sparks, which snapped viciously through the air. Then, in the
silence of the night, Tom clicked off his call for help for the
castaways of Earthquake Island.

For half an hour he sent it away into space, none of the others in
their shacks below him, awakening. Then Tom, having worked off his
restless fit, was about to return to bed.

But what was this? What was that clicking in the telephone receiver
at his ear? He listened. It was not a jumble of dots and dashes,
conveying through space a message that meant nothing to him. No! It
was his own call that was answered. The call of his station--"E.
I."--Earthquake Island!

"WHERE ARE YOU? WHAT'S WANTED?"

That was the message that was clicked to Tom from somewhere in the
great void.

"I GET YOUR MESSAGE 'E. I.' WHAT'S WANTED? DO I HEAR YOU RIGHT?
REPEAT." Tom heard those questions in the silence of the night.

With trembling fingers Tom pressed his own key. Out into the
darkness went his call for help.

"WE ARE ON EARTHQUAKE ISLAND." He gave the longitude and latitude.
"COME QUICKLY OR WE WILL BE ENGULFED IN THE SEA! WE ARE CASTAWAYS
FROM THE YACHT 'RESOLUTE,' AND THE AIRSHIP 'WHIZZER.' CAN YOU SAVE
US?"

Came then this query:

"WHAT'S THAT ABOUT AIRSHIP?"

"NEVER MIND AIRSHIP," clicked Tom. "SEND HELP QUICKLY! WHO ARE YOU?"

The answer flashed to him through space:

"STEAMSHIP 'CAMBARANIAN' FROM RIO DE JANEIRO TO NEW YORK. JUST
CAUGHT YOUR MESSAGE. THOUGHT IT A FAKE."

"NO FAKE," Tom sent back. "HELP US QUICKLY! HOW SOON CAN YOU COME?"

There was a wait, and the wireless operator clicked to Tom that he
had called the captain. Then came the report:

"WE WILL BE THERE WITHIN TWENTY-FOUR HOURS. KEEP IN COMMUNICATION
WITH US."

"YOU BET I WILL," flashed back Tom, his heart beating joyously, and
then he let out a great shout. "We are saved! We are saved! My
wireless message is answered! A steamer is on her way to rescue us!"

He rushed from the shack, calling to the others.

"What's that?" demanded Mr. Hosbrook.

Tom briefly told of how the message had come to him in the night.

"Tell them to hurry," begged the rich yacht owner. "Say that I will
give twenty thousand dollars reward if we are taken off!"

"And I'll do the same," cried Mr. Jenks. "I must get to the place
where--" Then he seemed to recollect himself, and stopped suddenly.
"Tell them to hurry," he begged Tom. The whole crowd of castaways,
save the women, were gathered about the wireless shack.

"They'll need to hurry," spoke Mr. Parker, the gloomy scientist.
"The island may sink before morning!"

Mr. Hosbrook and the others glared at him, but he seemed to take
delight in his prediction.

Suddenly the wireless instruments hummed.

"Another message," whispered Tom. He listened.

"THE 'CAMBARANIAN' WILL RUSH HERE WITH ALL SPEED," he announced, and
not a heart there on that lonely and desolate island but sent up a
prayer of thankfulness.




CHAPTER XXIV

"WE ARE LOST!"


There was little more sleep for any one that night. They sat up,
talking over the wonderful and unexpected outcome of Tom Swift's
wireless message, and speculating as to when the steamer would get
there.

"Bless my pocket comb! But I told you it would come out all right,
if we left it to Tom!" declared Mr. Damon.

"But it hasn't come out yet," remarked the pessimistic scientist.
"The steamer may arrive too late."

"You're a cheerful sort of fellow to take on a yachting trip,"
murmured Mr. Hosbrook, sarcastically. "I'll never invite you again,
even if you are a great scientist."

"I'm going to sit and watch for the steamer," declared Mr. Damon, as
he went outside the shack. The night was warm, and there was a full
moon. "Which way will she come from, Tom?"

"I don't know, but I should think, that if she was on her way north,
from South America, she'd pass on the side of the island on which we
now are."

"That's right," agreed Captain Mentor. "She'll come up from over
there," and he pointed across the ocean directly in front of the
shacks and camp.

"Then I'm going to see if I can't be the first to sight her lights,"
declared Mr. Damon.

"She can't possibly get here inside of a day, according to what the
operator said," declared Tom.

"Wire them to put on all the speed they can," urged the eccentric
man.

"No, don't waste any more power or energy than is needed," suggested
Mr. Hosbrook. "You may need the gasolene before we are rescued. They
are on their way, and that is enough for now."

The others agreed with this, and so Tom, after a final message to
the operator aboard the CAMBARANIAN stating that he would call him
up in the morning, shut down the motor.

Mr. Damon took up his position where he could see far out over the
ocean, but, as the young inventor had said, there was no possible
chance of sighting the relief steamer inside of a day. Still the
nervous, eccentric man declared that he would keep watch.

Morning came, and castaways brought to breakfast a better appetite
than they had had in some time. They were allowed larger rations,
too, for it was seen that they would have just enough food to last
until taken off.

"We didn't need to have made the big raft," said Mr. Fenwick, as Tom
came down from his station, to report that he had been in
communication with the Camabarian and that she was proceeding under
forced draught. "We'll not have to embark on it, and I'm glad of
it."

"Oh, we may need it yet," asserted Mr. Parker. "I have been making
some observations just now, and the island is in a very precarious
state. It is, I believe, resting on only a slim foundation, and the
least shock may break that off, and send it into the sea. That is
what my observations point out."

"Then I wish you wouldn't make any more observations!" exclaimed
Mrs. Nestor, with spirit. "You make me nervous."

"And me, also," added Mrs. Anderson.

"Science can not deceive, madam," retorted Mr. Parker.

"Well it can keep quiet about what it knows, and not make a person
have cold chills," replied Mary's mother. "I'm sure we will be
rescued in time."

There was a slight tremor of an earthquake, as they were eating
dinner that day, but, aside from causing a little alarm it did no
damage. In the afternoon, Tom again called up the approaching
steamer, and was informed that, because of a slight accident, it
could not arrive until the next morning. Every effort would be made
to keep up speed, it was said. There was much disappointment over
this, and Mr. Damon was observed to be closely examining the food
supply, but hope was too strong to be easily shattered now.

Mr. Parker went off alone, to make some further "observations" as he
called them, but Mr. Hosbrook warned him never again to speak of his
alarming theories.

Mr. Barcoe Jenks called Tom aside just before supper that evening.

"I haven't forgotten what I said to you about my diamonds," he
remarked, with many nods and winks. "I'll show you how to make them,
if you will help me. Did you ever see diamonds made?"

"No, and I guess very few persons have." replied the lad, thinking
perhaps Mr. Jenks might not be quite right, mentally.

The night passed without alarm, and in the morning, at the first
blush of dawn, every one was astir, looking eagerly across the sea
for a sight of the steamer.

Tom had just come down from the wireless station, having received a
message to the effect that a few hours more would bring the
CAMBARANIAN within sight of the island.

Suddenly there was a tremendous shock, as if some great cannon had
been fired, and the whole island shook to its very centre.

"Another earthquake! The worst yet!" screamed Mrs. Anderson.

"We are lost!" cried Mrs. Nestor, clinging to her husband.

An instant later they were all thrown down by the tremor of the
earth, and Tom, looking toward his wireless station, saw nearly half
of the island disappear from sight. His station went down in
collapse with it, splashing into the ocean, and the wave that
followed the terrible crash washed nearly to the castaways, as they
rose and kneeled on the sand.

"The island is sinking!" cried Mr. Parker. "Make for the raft!"

"I guess it's our only chance," murmured Captain Mentor, as he gazed
across the water. There was no steamer in sight. Could it arrive on
time? The tremors and shaking of the island continued.




CHAPTER XXV

THE RESCUE--CONCLUSION


Down to where the small raft was moored ran Mr. Parker. He was
followed by some of the others.

"We must put off at once!" he cried. "Half the island is gone! The
other half may disappear any moment! The steamer can not get here on
time, but if we put off they may pick us up, if we are not engulfed
in the ocean. Help, everybody!"

Tom gave one more look at where his wireless station had been. It
had totally disappeared, there being, at the spot, now but a sheer
cliff, which went right down into the sea.

The women were in tears. The men, with pale faces, tried to calm
them. Gradually the earthquake tremor passed away; but who could
tell when another would come?

Captain Mentor, Mr. Hosbrook and the others were shoving out the
small raft. They intended to get aboard, and paddle out to the
larger one, which had been moored some distance away, in readiness
for some such emergency as this.

"Come on!" cried Mr. Fenwick to Tom who was lingering behind. "Come
on, ladies. We must all get aboard, or it may be too late!"

The small raft was afloat. Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Nestor, weeping
hysterically, waded out through the water to get aboard.

"Have we food?" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my kitchen range! but I
nearly forgot that."

"There isn't any food left to take," answered Mrs. Anderson.

"Shove off!" cried Captain Mentor.

At that instant a haze which had hung over the water, was blown to
one side. The horizon suddenly cleared. Tom Swift looked up and gave
a cry.

"The steamer! The steamer! The CAMBARANIAN!" he shouted, pointing to
it.

The others joined in his exclamations of joy, for there, rushing
toward Earthquake Island was a great steamer, crowding on all speed!

"Saved! Saved!" cried Mrs. Nestor, sinking to her knees even in the
water.

"It came just in time!" murmured Mr. Hosbrook.

"Now I can make my diamonds," whispered Mr. Jenks to Tom.

"Push off! Push off!" cried Mr. Parker. "The island will sink,
soon!"

"I think we will be safer on the island than on the raft," declared
Captain Mentor. "We had better land again."

They left the little raft, and stood on the shore of the island.
Eagerly they watched the approach of the steamer. They could make
out hands and handkerchiefs waving to them now. There was eager hope
in every heart.

Suddenly, some distance out in the water, and near where the big
raft was anchored, there was a curious upheaval of the ocean. It was
as if a submarine mine had exploded! The sea swirled and foamed!

"It's a good thing we didn't go out there," observed Captain Mentor.
"We would have been swamped, sure as guns."

Almost as he spoke the big raft was tossed high into the air, and
fell back, breaking up. The castaways shuddered. Yet were they any
safer on the island? They fancied they could feel the little part of
it that remained trembling under their feet.

"The steamer is stopping!" cried Mr. Damon.

Surely enough the CAMBARANIAN had slowed up. Was she not going to
complete the rescue she had begun?

"She's going to launch her lifeboats," declared Captain Mentor. "Her
commander dare not approach too close, not knowing the water. He
might hit on a rock."

A moment later and two lifeboats were lowered, and, urged on by the
sturdy arms of the sailors, they bounded over the waves. The sea
seemed to be more and more agitated.

"It is the beginning of the end," murmured Mr. Parker. "The island
will soon disappear."

"Will you be quiet?" demanded Mr. Damon, giving the scientist a
nudge in the ribs.

The lifeboats were close at hand now.

"Are you all there?" shouted some one, evidently in command.

"All here," answered Tom.

"Then hurry aboard. There seems to be something going on in these
waters--perhaps a submarine volcano eruption. We must get away in a
hurry!"

The boats came in to the shelving beach. There was a little stretch
of water between them and the sand. Through this the castaways
waded, and soon they were grasped by the sailors and helped in. In
the reaction of their worriment Mrs. Anderson and Mrs. Nestor were
both weeping, but their tears were those of joy.

"Give way now, men!" cried the mate in charge of the boats. "We must
get back to the ship!"

The sea was now swirling angrily, but the sailors, who had been in
worse turmoils than this, rowed on steadily.

"We feared you would not get here in time," said Tom to the mate.

"We were under forced draught most of the way," was his answer.
"Your wireless message came just in time. An hour later and our
operator would have gone to bed."

The young inventor realized by what a narrow margin they had been
rescued.

"The island will soon sink," predicted Mr. Parker, as they reached
the steamer, and boarded her. Captain Valasquez, who was in command,
warmly welcomed the castaways.

"We will hear your story later," he said. "Just now I want to get
out of these dangerous waters."

He gave the order for full speed, and, as the CAMBARANIAN got under
way, Tom, and the others, standing on the deck, looked back at
Earthquake Island.

Suddenly there sounded a dull, rumbling report. The whole ocean
about the island seemed to upheave. There was a gigantic shower of
spray, a sound like an explosion, and when the waters subsided the
island had sunk from sight.

"I told you it would go," cried Mr. Parker, triumphantly, but the
horror of it all--the horror of the fate that would have been theirs
had they remained there an hour longer--held the castaways dumb. The
scientist's honor of having correctly predicted the destruction of
the island was an empty one.

The agitation of the sea rocked even the mighty CAMBARANIAN and, had
our friends been aboard the frail raft, they would surely have
perished in the sea. As it was, they were safe--saved by Tom Swift's
wireless message.

The steamer resumed her voyage, and the castaways told their story.
Captain Valasquez refused to receive the large amount of money Mr.
Hasbrook and Mr. Jenks would have paid him for the rescue, accepting
only a sum he figured that he had lost by the delay, which was not a
great deal. The castaways were given the best aboard the ship, and
their stories were listened to by the other passengers with bated
breath.

In due time they were landed in New York, and Mr. and Mrs. Nestor
accompanied Tom to Shopton. Mr. Damon, with many blessings also
accompanied them, going to his home in Waterfield. Later it was
learned that the other boats from the RESOLUTE had been picked up,
and the sailors and guests were all saved.

Of course, as soon as our friends had been rescued by the steamer,
the wireless operator aboard her, with whom Tom soon struck up an
acquaintance, sent messages to the relatives of the castaways,
apprising them of their safety.

And the joy of Mary Nestor, when she found that it was Tom who had
saved her parents, can well be imagined. As for our hero, well, he
was glad too--for Mary's sake.

"I won't forget my promise to you, Tom Swift," said Mr. Barcoe
Jenks, as he parted from the young inventor, and what the promise
was will be told in the next volume of this series, to be called:
"Tom Swift Among the Diamond Makers; or, The Secret of Phantom
Mountain." In that Tom is destined to have many more surprising
adventures, as is also Mr. Damon, who learned new ways to call down
blessings on himself and his possessions.

And now, for a time, we will take leave of the young inventor and
also of his many friends, who never ceased to wonder over Tom
Swift's skill with the wireless.

THE END




Tom Swift in the Caves of Ice

OR

The Wreck of the Airship


by VICTOR APPLETON




CONTENTS


     I   ERADICATE IN AN AIRSHIP
    II   ANDY FOGER'S TRIPLANE
   III   ABE IS DECEIVED
    IV   TOM GETS THE MAP
     V   GRAVE SUSPICIONS
    VI   ANDY'S AIRSHIP FLIES
   VII   READY FOR THE TRIP
  VIII   A THIEF IN THE NIGHT
    IX   A VANDAL'S ACT
     X   TOM IS HELD UP
    XI   OFF FOR THE FROZEN NORTH
   XII   PELTED BY HAILSTONES
  XIII   A FRIGHTENED INDIAN
   XIV   THE RIVAL AIRSHIP
    XV   THE RACE
   XVI   THE FALL OF THE ANTHONY
  XVII   HITTING THE ICE MOUNTAIN
 XVIII   A FIGHT WITH MUSK OXEN
   XIX   THE CAVES OF ICE
    XX   IN THE GOLD VALLEY
   XXI   THE FOGERS ARRIVE
  XXII   JUMPING THE CLAIM
 XXIII   ATTACKED BY NATIVES
  XXIV   THE WRECK OF THE AIRSHIP
   XXV   THE RESCUE-CONCLUSION




CHAPTER I

ERADICATE IN AN AIRSHIP


"Well, Massa Tom, am yo' gwine out in yo' flyin' machine ag'in to-day?"

"Yes, Rad, I think I will take a little flight. Perhaps I'll go over
to Waterford, and call on Mr. Damon. I haven't seen very much of
him, since we got back from our hunt after the diamond-makers."

"Take a run clear ober t' Waterfield; eh, Massa Tom?"

"Yes, Rad. Now, if you'll help me, I'll get out the Butterfly, and
see what trim she's in for a speedy flight."

Tom Swift, the young inventor, aided by Eradicate Sampson, the
colored helper of the Swift household, walked over toward a small
shed.

A few minutes later the two had rolled into view, on its three
bicycle wheels, a trim little monoplane--one of the speediest craft
of the air that had ever skimmed along beneath the clouds. It was
built to carry two, and had a very powerful motor.

"I guess it will work all right," remarked the young inventor, for
Tom Swift had not only built this monoplane himself, but was the
originator of it, and the craft contained many new features.

"It sho' do look all right, Massa Tom."

"Look here, Rad," spoke the lad, as a sudden idea came to him,
"you've never ridden in an airship, have you?"

"No, Massa Tom, an' I ain't gwine to nuther!"

"Why not?"

"Why not? 'Case as how it ain't healthy; that's why!"

"But I go in them frequently, Eradicate. So does my father. You've
seen us fly often enough, to know that it's safe. Why, look at the
number of times Mr. Damon and I have gone off on trips in this
little Butterfly. Didn't we always come back safely?"

"Yes, dat's true, but dere might come a time when yo' WOULDN'T come
back, an' den where'd Eradicate Sampson be? I axes yo' dat--whar'd I
be, Massa Tom?"

"Why, you wouldn't be anywhere if you didn't go, of course," and Tom
laughed. "But I'd like to take you for a little spin in this
machine, Rad. I want you to get used to them. Sometime I may need
you to help me. Come, now. Suppose you get up on this seat here, and
I promise not to go too high until you get used to it. Come on, it
will do you good, and think of what all your friends will say when
they see you riding in an airship."

"Dat's right, Massa Tom. Dey suah will be monstrous envious ob
Eradicate Sampson, dat's what dey will."

It was clear that the colored man was being pursuaded somewhat
against his will. Though he had been engaged by Tom Swift and his
father off and on for several years, Eradicate had never shown any
desire to take a trip through the air in one of the several craft
Tom owned for this purpose. Nor had he ever evinced a longing for a
trip under the ocean in a submarine, and as for riding in Tom's
speedy electric car--Eradicate would as soon have sat down with
thirteen at the table, or looked at the moon over the wrong
shoulder.

But now, somehow, there was a peculiar temptation to take his young
employer at his word. Eradicate had seen, many times, the youthful
inventor and his friends make trips in the monoplane, as well as in
the big biplane and dirigible balloon combined--the RED CLOUD. Tom
and the others had always come back safely, though often they met
with accidents which only the skill and daring of the daring
aeronaut had brought to a safe conclusion.

"Well, are you coming, Rad?" asked Tom, as he looked to see if the
oil and gasoline tanks were filled, and gave a preliminary twirl to
the propeller.

"Now does yo' t'ink it am puffickly safe, Massa Tom?" and the
colored man looked nervously at the machine.

"Of course, Rad. Otherwise I wouldn't invite you. But I won't take
you far. I just want you to get used to it, and, once you have made
a flight, you'll want to make another."

"I don't nohow believe I will, Massa Tom, but as long as you have
axed me, an' as yo' say some of dem proud, stuck-up darkies in
Shopton will be tooken down a peg or two when de sees me, vhy, I
will go wif yo', Massa Tom."

"I thought you would. Now take your place in the little seat next to
where I'm going to sit. I'll start the engine and jump in. Now sit
perfectly still, and, whatever you do, don't jump out. The ground's
pretty hard this morning. There was a frost last night."

"I knows dere was, Massa Tom. Nope, I won't jump. I--I--Oh, golly,
Massa Tom! I guess I don't want to go--let me out!"

Eradicate, his heart growing fainter as the time of starting drew
nearer, made as if he would leave the monoplane, in which he had
taken his seat.

"Sit still!" yelled Tom. At that instant he started the propeller.
The motor roared like a salvo of guns, and streaks of fire could be
seen shooting from one cylinder to the other, until there was a
perfect blast of explosions.

The speed of the propeller increased as the motor warmed up. Tom ran
to his seat and opened the gasoline throttle still more, advancing
the spark slightly. The roar increased. The lad darted a look at
Eradicate. The colored man's face was like chalk, and he was
gripping the upright braces at his side as though his salvation
depended on them.

"Steady now" spoke Tom, yelling to be heard above the racket. "Here
we go."

The Butterfly was moving slowly across the level stretch of ground
which Tom used for starting his airships. The propeller was now a
blur of light. The explosions of the motor became a steady roar, the
noise from one cylinder being merged into the blast from the others
so rapidly that it was a continuous racket.

With a whizz the monoplane shot across the ground. Then, with a
quick motion, Tom tilted the lifting planes, and, as gracefully as a
bird, the little machine mounted upward on a slant until, coming to
a level about two hundred feet above the earth, Tom sent it straight
ahead over the roof of his house.

"How's this, Rad?" he cried. "Isn't it great?"

"It--it--er--bur-r-r-r! It's--it's mighty ticklish, Massa Tom--dat's
de word--it suah am mighty ticklish!"

Tom Swift laughed and increased the speed. The Butterfly darted
forward like some hummingbird about to launch itself upon a flower,
and, indeed, the revolutions of the propeller were not unlike the
vibrations of the wings of that marvelous little creature.

"Now for some corkscrew twists!" cried the young inventor. "Here we
go, Rad!"

With that he began a series of intricate evolutions, making figures
of eight, spirals, curves, sudden dips and long swings. It was
masterwork in handling a monoplane, but Eradicate Sampson, as he sat
crouched in the seat, gripping the uprights until his hands ached,
was in no condition to appreciate it. Gradually, however, as he saw
that the craft remained up in the air, and showed no signs of falling,
the fears of the colored man left him. He sat up straighter.

"Don't you like it, Rad?" cried Tom.

This time the answer came with more decision.

"It suah am great, Massa Tom! I'm--I'm beginnin' t' like it. Whoop!
I guess I do like it! Now if some of dem stuck-up coons could see
me--"

"They'd think YOU were stuck up; eh, Rad? Stuck up in the air!"

"Dat's right, Massa Tom. Ha! Ha! I suah am stuck up in de air! Ha!
Ha!"

By this time Tom had guided the machine away from the village, and
they were flying over the fields, some distance from his house. The
colored man was beginning to enjoy his experience very much.

Suddenly, just as Tom was trying to get a bit more speed out of the
motor, the machine stopped. The cessation of the racket was almost
as startling as a loud explosion would have been.

"Just my luck!" cried Tom.

"What's de matter?" asked Eradicate, anxiously.

"Motor's stalled," replied the young inventor.

"An', by golly, we's falling!" yelled the colored man.

Naturally, with the stopping of the propeller, there was no further
straight, forward motion to the monoplane, and, following the law of
nature, it began to drop toward the earth on a slant.

"We's fallin'! We'll be killed!" yelled the negro.

"It's all right, I'll just vol-plane back to earth," spoke Tom,
calmly. "I've often done it before, higher up than this. Sit still,
Rad, I'm volplaning back to the ground."

"An' I'll JUMP back to de ground; dat's what I'll do. I ain't goin'
t' wait until I falls, no sah! An' I ain't gwine t' do none ob dat
ball-playin' yo' speak ob, Massa Swift. It's no time t' play ball
when yo' life am in danger. I'se gwine t' jump."

"Sit still!" cried Tom, for the colored man was about to spring from
his seat. "There's no danger! I didn't say anything about playing
ball. I said I'd VOL-PLANE back to the earth. We'll be there
shortly. I'll take you down safe. Sit still, Rad!"

He spoke so earnestly that the fears of his colored passenger were
quelled. With a quick motion Tom threw up the head planes, to check
the downward sweep. The Butterfly shot forward on a gradual slant.
Repeating this maneuver several times, the young inventor finally
brought his machine to within a short distance of the earth, and,
also, considerably nearer his own home.

"I wonder if we can make it?" he murmured, measuring the distance
with his eye. "I think so. I'll shoot her up a bit and then let her
down on a long slant. Then, with another upward tilt, I ought to
fetch it."

The monoplane tilted upward. Eradicate gave a cry of terror. It was
stilled at a look from Tom. Once more the air machine glided
forward. Then came another long dip, another upward glide and the
Butterfly came gently to earth almost on the very spot whence it had
flown upward a few minutes before.

Eradicate gave one mad spring from his seat, almost before the
bicycle wheels had ceased revolving, as Tom jammed on the earth-brake.

"Here, where are you going, Rad?" cried the lad.

"Whar am I goin'? I'se goin' t' see if mah mule Boomerang am safe.
He's de only kind ob an airship I wants arter dis!" and the colored
man disappeared into the shack whence came a loud "hee-haw!"

"Oh, pshaw! Wait a minute, Rad. I'll soon have the motor fixed, and
we'll make another try. I'll take you over to Mr. Damon's with me."

"No, sah, Massa Tom. Yo' don't catch dis coon in any mo' airships.
Mah mule am good enough fo' me!" shouted Eradicate from the safe
harbor of the mule's stable.

Tom laughed, and turned to inspect the motor. As he was looking it
over, to locate the trouble, the door of the house opened and a
pleasant-faced woman stepped out.

"Oh, Tom," she called. "I looked for you a moment ago, and you
weren't here!"

"No, Mrs. Baggert," Tom replied, waving his hand in greeting to the
housekeeper, "Rad and I just came back--quite suddenly--sooner than
we expected to. Why? Did you want me?"

"Here's a letter that came for you," she went on.

Tom tore open the envelope, and rapidly scanned the contents of the
missive.

"Hello!" he ejaculated half aloud. "It's from Abe Abercrombie, that
miner I met when we were after the diamond-makers! He says he is on
his way east to get ready to start on the quest for the Alaskan
valley of gold, in the caves of ice. I had almost forgotten that I
promised to make the attempt in the big airship. How did this letter
come, Mrs. Baggert?" he asked.

"By special delivery. The messenger brought it a few minutes ago."

"Then we may see Abe any day now. Guess I'd better be looking over
the RED CLOUD to see if it's in shape for a trip to the Arctic
regions."

Tom's attention for the moment was taken off his little monoplane,
and his memory went back to the strange scenes in which he and his
friends had recently played a part, in searching for the cave of the
diamond-makers on Phantom Mountain. He recalled the promise he had
made to the old miner.

"I wonder if he expects us to start for Alaska with winter coming
on?" thought Tom.

His musings were suddenly interrupted by the entrance into the yard,
surrounding the aeroplane shed, of a lad about his own age.

"Hello, Ned Newton!" called Tom, heartily.

"Hello, yourself," responded Ned. "I've got a day off from the bank,
and I thought I'd come over and see you. Say, have you heard the
latest?"

"No. What is it?"

"Andy Foger is building an airship."

"Andy Foger building an airship?"

"Yes, he says it will beat yours."

"Humph! It will, eh? Well, Andy can do as he pleases as long as he
doesn't bother me. I won't be around here much longer, anyhow."

"Why not, Tom?"

"Because I soon expect to start for the far north on a strange
quest. Come on in the shed, and I'll tell you about it. We're going
to try to locate a valley of gold, and I guess Andy Foger won't
follow me there, even if he does build an airship."

Tom and his chum started toward the shed, the young inventor still
holding the letter that was to play such an important part in his
life within the next few months. And, had he only known it, the
building of Andy Foger's airship was destined to be fraught with
much danger to our hero.




CHAPTER II

ANDY FOGER'S TRIPLANE


"Going to look for a valley of gold, eh?" remarked Ned Newton as he
and Tom took seats in a little room, fitted up like a den, where the
young inventor frequently worked out the details of the problems
that confronted him. "Where is this valley, Tom? Anywhere so I could
have a chance at it?"

"It's up in Alaska. Just where I don't know, but Abe Abercrombie,
the old miner whom we met when out in Colorado this summer, says he
can find it if we circle around in the airship. So I'm going to take
a chance. I'll tell you all about it."

And, while Tom is doing this, I will take the opportunity to more
formally introduce to my new readers our hero and his friends.

Tom Swift was an inventor of no little note, in spite of his youth.
He lived with his father, Barton Swift, who was also an inventor, on
the outskirts of the village of Shopton, New York State. Tom's
mother was dead, and Mrs. Baggert had kept house for him and his
father since he was a child. Garret Jackson, an expert machinist,
was also a member of the household, and as has been explained,
Eradicate Sampson, who took that name because, as he said he
"eradicate de dirt," was also a sort of retainer. He lived in a
little house on the Swift grounds, and did odd jobs about the place.

In the first book of the series, entitled "Tom Swift and His Motor
Cycle," there was related how the lad became possessed of one of
those speedy machines, after Mr. Wakefield Damon had come to grief
on it. Mr. Damon was an eccentric man, who was always blessing
himself, some part of his anatomy, or some of his possessions.

After many adventures on his motor-cycle, Tom Swift went through
some surprising happenings with a motor-boat he bought. After that
he built an airship, the RED CLOUD, and later he and his father
constructed a submarine, in which they went under the ocean in
search of sunken treasure, enduring many perils and much danger.

Tom Swift's electric runabout, which he built after returning home
from the submarine trip, proved to be the speediest car on the road.
The experience he acquired in making this machine stood him in good
stead, when (as told in the sixth volume, "Tom Swift and His
Wireless Message") the airship in which he, Mr. Damon and a friend
of the latter's (who had built the craft) were wrecked on Earthquake
Island. There Tom was marooned with some refugees from a wrecked
steam yacht, among whom were Mr. and Mrs. Nestor, father of a girl
of whom Tom thought a great deal.

With parts from the wrecked electric airship the youth rigged up a
plant, and sent wireless messages from the island. The castaways
nearly lost their lives in the earthquake shocks, but a steamer,
summoned by Tom's wireless call, arrived in time to save them, just
as the island disappeared beneath the sea.

In the seventh book of the series, entitled "Tom Swift Among the
Diamond Makers" there was related the adventures of himself and his
friends when they tried to solve the mystery of Phantom Mountain.

Among the castaways of Earthquake Island was a Mr. Barcoe Jenks and
a Professor Ralph Parker. Mr. Jenks was a strange man, and claimed
to have some valuable diamonds, which he said were made by a gang of
men hidden in a cave in the Rocky Mountains. Tom did not believe
that the diamonds were real, but Mr. Jenks soon proved that they
were.

He asked Tom to aid him in searching for the cave of the diamond
makers. Mr. Jenks had been there once--in fact, he had been offered
a partnership in the diamond-making business, but, after he had paid
his money, he had been drugged, and carried secretly from the cave
before he had a chance to note its location.

But he, together with Tom, Mr. Damon and the scientist Mr. Parker,
who correctly predicted the destruction of Earthquake Island, set
out in the RED CLOUD to find the diamond makers. They did find them,
after many hardships, and were captured by the gang. How Tom and his
friends escaped from the cave, after they had seen diamonds made by
a powerful lightning flash, and how they nearly lost their lives
from the destruction of Phantom Mountain, is fully set down in the
book.

Sufficient to say now, that, though they had a general idea of how
the precious stones were made, by the power of the lightning, the
young inventor and his friends were never quite able to accomplish
it, and the secret remained a secret. But they had secured some
diamonds as they rushed from the cave (Mr. Damon grabbing them up)
and these were divided among Tom and the others.

Just as they were ready to come home in the airship, our friends
were met by an old miner, Abe Abercrombie, who spoke of a valley of
gold in Alaska, which was the story Tom related to Ned Newton, as
the two chums sat in the den of the airship shed.

"Then you don't know all the details about the gold valley, Tom?"
remarked Ned, as the young inventor showed his chum the letter that
had just arrived.

"No, not all of them. At the time this miner met us I was anxious to
get back East, for we had been away so long I knew dad would be
worried. But I listened to part of Abe's story, and half promised to
go in partnership in this quest for gold. He was to furnish
information about the hidden valley, and I was to supply the
airship. I expect Abe to come along at any time, now, and then I'll
hear more particulars."

"Will you go all the way in the airship?"

"Well, I hadn't thought of that. I could ship it to the nearest
place by rail, I suppose, and go on from there. That's a detail to
be considered later. I'll talk it over with Abe."

"Who are going?"

"I don't know that even. I suppose Mr. Damon would feel slighted if
I left him out. And perhaps Mr. Parker, that gloomy scientist, who
is always predicting terrible accidents, will be glad to go along.
Then Abe may have some friend he wants to take."

"By Jinks! But you certainly do have swell times, Tom Swift!"
exclaimed Ned Newton, enviously. "I wish I could go and have a try
at that valley of gold!"

"Why don't you come along, Ned?"

"Do you really mean it?"

"Of course."

"But I don't believe I could get away from the bank."

"Oh, dad and Mr. Damon could fix that. They're directors, you know.
Come along, I'd be delighted to have you. Will you?"

"I'll think about it. Jinks! But I sure would like to go. Do you
think you can find the valley?"

"Well, there's no telling. We generally do succeed in finding what
we go after, even if we didn't get the diamond secret. I'm anxious
to have Abe come, now, though until I got his letter I had almost
forgotten about my promise to him. But, say, what's this you told me
about Andy Foger making an airship?"

"It's true, though I haven't seen it. Jake Porter was telling me
about it. Andy's built a big shed in his yard, and he and some
cronies of his, including Pete Bailey and Sam Snedecker, are working
in there night and day. They've hired a couple of machinists, too.
Mr. Foger is putting up the cash, I guess. Say, that was quite a
scare you gave Andy on your monoplane, one day."

"Yes, the big bully! and I'd like to scare him worse. But say, do
you know I'd like to get a look at his airship. I wonder what sort
of a craft it is?"

"We can see it easily enough."

"How?"

"Why, the back part of the shed where he and the others are working
is close to our fence. There are some holes in our fence and if you
come there, maybe you can look in."

"I can't see through the side of the shed, though."

"Yes, you can."

"How?"

"Why, there's a big window, for light, in the back part of it. I
happened to notice it the other day. I didn't look in, because I
wasn't much interested, but I saw that one could peer over the top
of our fence right into the shop where Andy is working. Want to try
it?"

Tom hesitated a moment.

"Well, it seems rather an odd thing to do," he said. "But I would
like to see what sort of a flying machine Andy is making, just for
my own satisfaction. He may be infringing on some of my patents, and
if he is, I'll stop him. Once or twice he's been sneaking around my
shed here. I don't believe in sneaking, but I know he wouldn't let
me in if I asked him, so I guess it's the only way. I'll go with
you, Ned."

"All right. We'll see if we can get a glimpse of Andy's queer
shebang through the window."

The two chums left Tom's shop, and were soon in the yard of Ned
Newton's house. As he had said, the big shed in Andy's premises came
close up to the fence, and there was a window through which one
might gaze. The casement did not appear to be curtained.

"I'll get a ladder so we can climb up to the top of the fence, and
look over," spoke Ned, as he and Tom went out into the yard back of
his house. The fence was high up on an embankment.

A little later Tom and his chum were gazing into the shop window
from the ladder.

"Why, it's a triplane--a big triplane!" he exclaimed.

"What's a triplane?" asked Ned, who didn't have much time to study
the different types of airships.

"It's one that has three sets of planes, one above the other. A
biplane has two sets of planes, and a monoplane only one. Triplanes
are larger, and, as far as I've been able to learn, not as
satisfactory as either the biplanes or monoplanes. But that's not
saying Andy's won't be a success. They certainly are busy in there,
though! Andy is flying around like a hen scratching for her little
chickens!"

"See anything of his cronies?"

"Yes, Pete and Sam are hammering away. There are a couple of men,
too."

"Yes, the machinists. Oh, I guess Andy expects great things from his
airship."

"Have you heard what he's going to do with it, Ned? Make flights for
pleasure, or exhibit it?"

"No, I haven't heard. Look out, Tom, the ladder is slipping!"

As Ned spoke this warning, the window of the airship shed, through
which they were looking, was suddenly raised. The ugly face of Andy
Foger peered out. He caught sight of Tom and Ned.

"Get away from there, you spies!" he yelled. "Get away from there,
Tom Swift! You're trying to steal some of my ideas! Get away or I'll
make you. Sam, bring me my gun! Pete, go tell my father to come
here! I'll show Ned Newton and Tom Swift they can't bother me!"

Andy was dancing about in a rage. His two cronies crowded behind him
to the window just as the ladder on which Tom and Ned were standing
slipped along the fence.

"Jump, Ned!" yelled Tom Swift, as he leaped away to escape being
entangled in the rungs.

The young inventor came to the ground with a jar that shook him up
considerably, while Ned, who had grasped the top board of the fence,
remained hanging there by his hands, his feet dangling in the air.

"Whack his fingers, Andy!" yelled Pete Bailey. "Get a long stick and
whack Ned's fingers! That will make him drop off!"

Tom Swift heard, and labored desperately to raise the ladder to
enable Ned to get down, for his chum seemed to be afraid to drop.




CHAPTER III

ABE IS DECEIVED


Raising a ladder alone is rather an awkward job. Tom found this so
when he tried to aid his friend Ned. But, being a muscular lad, the
young inventor did finally succeed in getting the ladder up against
the fence where the bank clerk could reach it.

Whack! Down upon the top board came a stick wielded by Andy Foger
from the rear window of his shop.

"Wow!" cried Ned, for the blow had been close to his fingers. "Hurry
up with that ladder, Tom."

"There it is! But why don't you drop?"

"Too far. I can't reach the ladder now!"

"Yes, you can. Stretch a bit!"

"Whack!" Once more the stick descended on the fence, this time still
closer to Ned's clinging hands.

"Hit him good, Andy!" cried Sam Snedecker, "Give me a shot at him!"

"I will not. I want to attend to him myself. You go tell my father,
and he'll have Tom Swift arrested for trying to sneak in and get
some of my airship ideas!"

By this time Ned's wiggling feet had found the topmost rung of the
ladder. The next moment he was rapidly descending it, and, when on
the ground, he and Tom carried it away, to prevent its use by the
enemy.

"Whew!" exclaimed the young inventor. "I had no idea they would kick
up such a row!"

"Me either. Did you hurt yourself when you jumped, as the ladder
fell?"

"No. Did they hit your hands?"

"Came mighty near it. Well, I s'pose it serves us right, yet if I
can't look over my own back fence it's a pity!"

"Of course we can, only I'd just as soon they hadn't seen us.
However--hello! there's Andy looking over here, now."

The mean face of the bully now topped the fence. It was evident that
he had crawled from the window of his shop.

"What are you trying to get into my place for, Tom Swift?" he
demanded.

"I wasn't trying to get in, Andy Foger."

"Well, you were looking in."

"Only doing as you've done over at my shop, several times, Andy. I
wanted to see what sort of an airship you were building."

"Trying to get some ideas for your own, I guess," sneered Andy.

Tom did not think it worth while to answer this taunt.

"I could have you arrested for this," went on Andy, who felt bolder
now that he was reinforced by Sam and Pete on either side of him as
he looked over the fence into Ned's yard.

"Arrested for what?" demanded the bank clerk.

"For trespassing on my father's premises," went on Andy.

"We weren't on your premises," declared Ned. "We were on our side of
the fence all the while."

"Well, you were looking over in my yard."

"A cat may look at a king, you know, Andy," Tom reminded the bully.

"Yah! Think you're smart, don't you! Well, you can't steal any of my
ideas for an airship. They're all patented, and I'll soon be making
longer and higher flights than you ever dreamed of! I'll show you
what a real airship is, Tom Swift! Monoplanes and biplanes are out
of date. The only thing that's any good is a triplane. If mine works
well--and I'm sure it will--I may build a quadruplane!"

"I wish you luck," spoke Tom, with a shrug of his shoulders.

"Well, you won't have any luck if you come around here any more,"
went on Pete Bailey. "We'll be on the watch for you fellows, now,
and we'll cover this window, so you can't see in."

"That's what we will," agreed Andy, and Sam Snedecker shook his head
vigorously to indicate that he, too, approved of this.

"Come on," spoke Tom in a low tone to Ned, "I've seen enough."

The two chums moved toward Ned's house, followed by the jeers and
mocking laughter of Andy and his cronies.

"Can't you get back at them in some way?" asked Ned, for he did not
like to see himself or his friend apparently vanquished by the
bully.

"He laughs best who laughs last, Ned."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that when Andy tries to fly in his triplane it will be our
turn to laugh."

"Won't it fly?"

"Never, the way he has it rigged up. It didn't take but one look to
tell me that. He's working on altogether the wrong principle. Wait
until he tries to go up, and then we'll have some fun with him."

"Then you got a good view of it through the window?"

"I saw all I wanted to. But say, I was about to take a little trip
in my monoplane, to see my friend Mr. Damon, when Abe's letter
arrived, and you came along with your news. I started to take
Eradicate, but he backed out. Don't you want to come?"

"Sure, I'll go along."

Ned had often ridden in the trim Butterfly, though the trips had not
been so frequent that he was tired of them. A little later, Tom,
having adjusted the motor that had stalled before, compelling him to
vol-plane back to earth, the two chums were sailing through the air
toward Waterford.

"Why, bless my shoe laces!" cried Mr. Damon, as they alighted in the
yard of his house, about an hour later. "I didn't expect you, Tom.
But I'm glad to see you!"

"And I to meet you again. I guess you know Ned Newton."

"Ah, yes. How d'ye do, Ned? Bless my appetite! but it's quite
chilly. We'll soon have winter. Won't you come in and have some hot
chocolate?"

The boys were glad to accept the invitation, and as they were
drinking the beverage, which Mrs. Damon made for them, Tom told of
the receipt of the letter from the old miner, and also his
experience in seeing Andy's airship.

"Why, bless my pocketbook!" cried Mr. Damon. "I had no idea we'd
ever hear from Abe Abercrombie again. And so he is really coming on,
to tell us about the valley of gold?"

"So he says," replied Tom. "I was wondering if you'd like to go, Mr.
Damon."

"Go? Why, bless my very topknot! Of course I would. I'll go with
you--only--only," and he leaned forward and whispered cautiously,
"don't speak so loudly. My wife might hear you!"

"Doesn't she want you to go off in the airship any more?" asked Tom.

"Well, she'd rather I wouldn't. But she's going on a visit to her
mother, soon, and then I think will come my opportunity to take
another trip with you. A valley of gold in Alaska, eh? Up where the
icebergs and caves of ice are. Say, Tom, I know some one else who
would be glad to go."

"Who?" inquired the young inventor, though he had an idea to whom
his friend referred.

"Mr. Parker! You know he's taken up his residence in Waterford, now,
and only the other day he spoke to me about wishing he could go to
the far north. He has some new theory--"

"About the destruction of something or other; hasn't he, Mr. Damon?"
interrupted Tom, with a smile.

"That's it, exactly, my boy. Bless my coffeepot! But Mr. Parker has
an idea that the whole northern part of this continent will soon be
buried thousands of feet deep under an icy avalanche, and he wants
to be there to see it. I know he'd like to go with us, Tom."

The young inventor made a little gesture of dissent, but as he knew
Mr. Damon, who was very eccentric himself, had taken a great liking
to the gloomy scientist, Tom did not feel like refusing. So he said:

"All right, Mr. Damon. If we go, and I think we shall, we'll expect
you and Mr. Parker. I'll let you know the result of Mr.
Abercrombie's visit, and I needn't request you to keep quiet about
it. If there is a valley of gold in Alaska, we don't want everyone
to know about it."

"No, of course not, Tom Swift. I'll keep silent about it. Bless my
liverpin! But I'll be glad to be on the move again, even if it is
toward the Arctic regions."

After some further talk, Tom and Ned took their departure, making
good time back to Shopton in the speedy monoplane.

For several days after that Tom busied himself about his big airship
the RED CLOUD, for it needed quite a few repairs after the long trip
to the mountains where the diamond makers had been discovered in
their cave.

"And if we're going up amid the ice and snow," reasoned Tom, "I've
got to make some different arrangements about the craft, and provide
for keeping warmer than we found necessary when we went west."

So it was that Tom had no time to learn anything further about Andy
Foger's airship, even had our hero been so inclined, which he was
not. He looked for Abe Abercrombie any day now, for though the old
miner had given no date as to when he would arrive, he had said, in
his letter, that it would be soon.

It was one day, nearly a week after Tom's attempt to make Eradicate
like aeroplaning, that there might have been seen, coming along the
Shopton road, which led toward Tom's house, the figure of a grizzled
old man. His clothes were rather rough, and he carried a valise that
had, evidently, seen much service. There was that about him which
proclaimed him for a westerner--a cattleman or a miner.

He walked slowly along, murmuring to himself.

"Wa'al, I might better have taken one of them wagons at th' depot,"
he said, "than t' try t' walk. It's quite a stretch out t' Tom
Swift's house. I hope I find him home."

He trudged on, and, a little later, his gaze was attracted by a
large shed, in the rear of a white house the pretentious appearance
of which indicated that persons of wealth owned it.

"I guess that must be the place," he remarked. "That shed is big
enough to hold the airship. Now to present myself."

As he walked up the front path of the house, he was met by one of
the gardeners, who was raking up the leaves.

"Is this the airship place?" asked the miner.

"Yes, that's where the young master is making his triplane,"
answered the man.

"Is he in?"

"Yes, I guess so. You can walk right back to the shed."

The miner did so. Through the open door of the building he had a
glimpse of big stretches of wings, propellers, rudders, and some
machinery.

"That's it," he murmured, "though it looks some different than I
remembered it. However, maybe Tom's changed it about. I wonder where
he is?"

As he spoke a lad came from the shed to meet him--a lad on whose
face there was a look of suspicion.

"What do you want?" he demanded.

"I'm lookin' for Tom Swift," was the simple reply. "But I take it
you're one of his partners in this airship business. I guess he must
have told you about me. I'm Abe Abercrombie, the miner, and I've
come to show him the way to that valley of gold in Alaska."

At the mention of Tom Swift's name, Andy Foger, for it was he, had
started to utter a denial. But, at the next words of the miner, and
as Mr. Abercrombie mentioned "gold" and "Alaska," there came a
cunning look over Andy's face.

"Tom Swift isn't here just now," he said, wondering how he could
turn to advantage the unexpected visit, and the impending
information that the guileless old man was about to give under the
mistaken idea that Andy was Tom's friend.

"That's all right, I reckon he'll be along presently. You'll do just
as well, I reckon. You're in partnership with him, I take it. So
this is the place where he makes his airships, eh? It's a big one,"
and Mr. Abercrombie looked in at the odd triplane of Andy's--for the
airship was almost finished.

"But it'll need to be big if we're to go to Alaska in it," went on
the miner. "It's quite a journey t' th' valley where th' gold is. No
way t' get t' it except by an airship. An' here I be an' ready to
start, I've brought th' map of th' place, jest as I promised. Here
it is, better take good care of it. Now, let's talk business," and
the miner, having guilelessly handed Andy Foger a folded parchment,
sat down on a box at the door of the airship shed, and placed his
heavy valise on the ground beside him.

"What's this?" asked the bully, wondering whether he had heard
aright.

"It's the map of th' valley of gold--directions how t' git there,
an' all that. I guess it's plain enough. Now, when can we start?"

Andy did not know what to say. Fate had, most unexpectedly, placed
in his hands a valuable paper. The miner had made a mistake. Andy's
house was on the same road as was Tom's and, seeing the airship
shed, had deceived the aged man. He had not expected to find two
airship manufactories in the same village.

"The map of the valley of gold," murmured Andy, as he put it in his
pocket.

"Yes, jest as I told Tom about when I met him out West. I said I'd
bring it with me, an' I did. When will Tom be back? He never spoke
of you, though I reckoned he'd have to have some help in makin' his
airships. Where is he?"

"He--he--" stammered Andy. He did not know what to say.

At that instant Tom Swift himself passed by in the road. He had been
over to Shopton on an errand. One look into the yard of Andy's house
showed to our hero the old miner sitting at the door of the airship
shed.

"Mr. Abercrombie--Abe!" cried Tom, almost, before he thought.

"Hello, Tom! I got here!" cried the miner, heartily. "I was jest
talking to your partner."

"My partner!" spoke Tom in amazement.

"Yes--partner in th' airship business. I should think you'd need
about three partners to build these machines!"

"My partner! Andy Foger isn't my partner!" cried Tom, wondering what
would happen next. "I have no partner! If he said he was he deceived
you!"

"No partner? Ain't he your partner?" cried Mr. Abercrombie. "Why, I
thought he was. I told him about th' valley of gold--I--I--give him
the map--"

"The map?"

"Yes, the map t' tell how to get there. He's got it!"

There was a mocking smile on Andy's face.

"Give that map back at once!" cried Tom, sternly, now understanding
something of the situation. "Hand it over at once, Andy Foger!"

"I will--when I get ready! He gave it to me!" cried the bully, and
then, before either Tom or Abe could stop him, Andy darted into the
big shed, and slammed shut the door.




CHAPTER IV

TOM GETS THE MAP


For a few seconds Tom was so surprised at the sudden action of the
bully that he could neither move nor speak. Then, crying out a
command to halt, the young inventor took after his enemy.

"The scamp!" he cried. "The nerve he has! To deceive Abe Abercrombie
in that fashion! Wait until I get hold of him!"

"What's it all about?" asked the old miner, who, being a slow
thinker had not understood all that had happened. "What's up, Tom
Swift?"

"Haven't time to tell you now," flung back the running lad over his
shoulder. "I've got to catch Andy! Then I'll explain. He's trying to
get ahead of us, I guess, but we'll stop him!" Thereupon Tom flung
himself against the door of the airship shed. The young inventor
found the portal bolted, though it vibrated with the impact of his
body.

"Come out of there, Andy Foger!" cried Tom, pounding on the door.
"Come out, or I'll get an officer, and have you arrested!"

There was no answer.

"Come out, I say!" repeated Tom.

"Around th' back! Try th' back door!" suggested the miner, who had
hastened to Tom's side. "Maybe he's run out that way!"

Tom listened. There was no movement in the shop. Then the young
inventor sprinted around the side. He was just in time to see the
bully running away over the lots and fields in the rear of his
father's premises. Andy had climbed out of the back window of the
shed, into which Tom and Ned had peered that day, had climbed the
high fence, dropped down on the other side, and was now running away
with all the speed he could muster.

"Come back--!" began Tom, and then he realized that his enemy could
not hear him. The bully was too far away. At the same time our hero
realized that it would be useless to give chase, for Andy had too
much of a start. There was nothing to do but to turn back, and Tom
knew that his delay in trying to gain an entrance at the front door
had given Andy the very opportunity he needed to escape at the rear.

"Well, this is a bad turn of affairs," remarked the lad, as he faced
the puzzled miner.

"What is, Tom?"

"Him having that map. It shows the location of the valley of gold,
doesn't it, and tells how to get there?"

"That's what it does!"

"How did Andy happen to get it?"

"Jest as I told you. I was on my way t' your house, havin' inquired
at th' post-office, an' the man said that at your place there was a
big shed, where you kept your airships. I come along, an', of
course, when I see this house, an' the shed, an' had a glimpse of
th' airship, I, of course, thought it was your place. An', though
you'd never told me about it, I thought maybe this lad was in
business with you. So, like a blamed young tenderfoot, I blurted out
my business afore I thought, an' handed him the map for safe
keepin'. He took it, too, that's the worst of it."

"Yes, that's the worst of it," agreed Tom, "But I'll get it back, if
I have to cause his arrest, and search his whole house."

"But he runned away, Tom."

"Oh, he'll come back. Was there only one copy of the map of the
valley, Abe?" asked Tom, anxiously.

"Yep; only one."

"Could you make another?"

"No, not if you was to pay me a million dollars! You see I ain't no
drawer, an' this map, while I made part of it, was mostly made by my
old partner, who was with me when we discovered th' valley of gold,
an' was druv back by th' savage Eskimos an' Indians, an' by th'
terrible cold. My partner made th' best part of th' map, an' he's
dead, poor fellow."

"I see. That's too bad! Then you can't make a duplicate map?"

"Nary a one. But can't you do somethin'? It were amazin' stupid of
me, old Abe Abercrombie, t' be took in by a boy like him! Can't you
do somethin'?"

"I'm going to try," announced Tom determinedly, as he swung on
toward the Foger house. "I'll cause his arrest if he doesn't give it
up."

A few minutes later Tom Swift and Abe confronted Mr. Foger. The rich
man, father of the bully, was rather surprised at the visit from the
young inventor, for the two were not friends.

"Well, what can I do for you, Tom Swift?" asked the banker, for he
felt a certain coldness toward our hero, since the latter had
defeated him in an effort to wreck a financial institution in which
Tom and his father were interested.

"Mr. Foger," spoke Tom, sternly, "your son has just stolen a map
belonging to this gentleman," and he indicated Abe.

"My son stolen a map!" exclaimed Mr. Foger. "How dare you make such
an accusation, Tom Swift?"

"I dare, because it's true! And, unless that map is returned to me
at my house to-night I shall swear out a warrant for Andy's arrest."

"You'd never dare do that!"

"Wait and see!" spoke Tom, firmly. "I will give your son, or you,
exactly five hours to return that map--if it isn't back in my hands
by then, I'll get a warrant!"

"Preposterous! Stuff and nonsense!" blustered Mr. Foger. "My son
never stole anything!"

"He stole this map, and there is plenty of evidence," went on Tom,
as he detailed the circumstances.

Mr. Foger hemmed and hawed, and affected not to believe that
anything of the kind could have happened. But Tom was firm, and Abe
Abercrombie backed up his statements, until even the banker began to
waver.

"Very well," he announced at length, "I will look into this matter,
and if I find that my son has anything of yours, you shall have it
back. But I cannot believe it. Perhaps he took it as a joke."

"In which case," spoke Tom grimly, "he will find that he has carried
the joke too far," and with that he and the miner left the Foger
home.

"It's all my fault," bewailed Abe, as he and our hero trudged on
toward the Swift household.

"No, it wasn't, Abe," declared Tom. "Any one would have been
deceived by such tactics as Andy used--that is any stranger. And you
didn't expect to find two airship sheds so close together."

"No. That's right, I didn't. That's what threw me off th' track."

"Andy only recently began work on his triplane. I don't know what
his object is, and I don't care. Just now I'm more concerned about
getting back this map."

"I hope we do get it."

"Oh, we will. I'm going to start off on my own hook, to find Andy.
But first I'll take you to my house."

The old miner was soon telling his story to Mr. Swift, the
housekeeper and Garret Jackson. They expressed their surprise at
Andy's daring act. But Tom didn't do much more talking.

"I'm going out to find Andy," he declared, "and when I do--" He
didn't finish his sentence, but they all knew what he meant.

But the bully was in none of his usual haunts, though Tom visited
them all. Nor was Andy at the homes of either of his cronies.

"Well, if I don't find him, I shall certainly swear out the
warrant," decided Tom. "I'll give him until night, and then I'll
call on the police."

Still he did not give up, but went to several other places where
Andy might be found. He had about given up, as it was getting toward
late afternoon, when, as he came out of a billiardroom, where the
bully was in the habit of spending much of his time, Tom saw the lad
of whom he was in search.

"Hold on there, Andy Foger!" cried the young inventor. "I want to
see you!"

"What about?"

"You know very well. Where's that map you stole?"

"I haven't got it."

"Take care!" and Tom, with a quick step was beside the bully, and
had grasped him firmly by the arm.

"You let me alone, Tom Swift!" cried Andy.

"Where's that map?" and Tom gave Andy's arm a wrench.

"It's at your house; that's where it is! I just took it back. It was
only a joke."

"A joke, eh? And you took it back?"

"Yes, I did. Now you let me go!"

"I will when I find out if you're telling me the truth or not, Andy
Foger. You come with me!"

"Where?"

"To my house. I want to see if that map's there."

"Well, you'll find that it is, and you'd better let me go! My father
told me to take the map back, and I did. You let me go!"

Andy struggled to get loose, but Tom had too tight a grip. There was
something, too, in the manner of our hero that warned Andy not to
trifle with him. So, concluding that discretion was the better part
of valor, Andy walked sullenly along toward Tom's home, the young
inventor never relaxing the grip on his enemy's arm.

They reached the Swift home. Still holding his captive, Tom rang the
bell. His father came to the door, followed by Abe Abercrombie.

"Is the map back?" asked the young inventor, anxiously.

"Yes, Andy brought it here a few minutes ago," announced Mr. Swift.

"Is it the right one, Abe?" inquired Tom.

"Yep, Tom. I made sure of that as soon as I laid my eyes on it. It's
th' right one."

"Then you can go, Andy Foger," announced our hero, "and if I ever
catch you in another trick like this, I'll take the law into my own
hands. Clear out, now!"

"You wait! I'll get even with you," muttered the bully, as he fled
down the front walk, as though afraid Tom would, even then, put his
threat into execution.

"Did he damage the map any?" asked the lad, as he followed his
father and Abe into the house.

"Nary a bit," answered the old miner. "It's jest th' same as it was.
There it is," and he spread a crinkled sheet of tough parchment in
front of Tom. It was covered with a rude drawing, and with names of
places scrawled on it.

"So that's the map, eh?" murmured Tom, eagerly scanning it.

"That's it, an' here's th' valley of gold," went on Abe, as he
placed one rough finger on a certain spot. "Right there--hello!" he
cried, as he peered more closely at the parchment. "That ink spot
wasn't there when I had th' map, a few hours ago."

"What ink spot?" asked Tom, anxiously.

"That one," and the miner indicated a small one near the edge of the
map. "That was never there!"

"It looks as if it was recently made," added Mr. Swift, who was
something of a chemist.

"An ink spot-freshly made," murmured Tom, "Dad--Abe, I can guess
what's happened!"

"What?" demanded the miner.

"Andy Foger made a copy of this map while it was in his possession,
and now he knows where the valley of gold is as well as we do! He
may get there ahead of us!"




CHAPTER V

GRAVE SUSPICIONS


Tom's announcement took them all by surprise. For a moment no one
knew what to say, while the young inventor looked more closely at
the parchment map.

"Do you really think he has dared to make a copy of it?" asked Mr.
Swift.

"I do," answered his son. "That ink spot wasn't there when Abe gave
him the map; was it?"

"No," replied the miner.

"And it couldn't get on in Andy's pocket," went on Tom. "So he must
have had it open near where there was ink."

"His fountain pen might have leaked," suggested Mr. Jackson.

"In that case the ink spot would be on the outside of the map, and
not on the inside," declared Tom, with the instinct of a detective.
"Unless he had the map folded in his pocket with the inside surface
on the outside, the ink couldn't have gotten on. Besides, Andy
always carries his fountain pen in his upper vest pocket, and that
pocket is too small to hold the map. No, I'm almost positive that
Andy or his father have sneakingly made a copy of this map!"

"I'm sorry to have to admit that Mr. Foger is capable of such an
act," spoke Mr. Swift, "but I believe it is true."

"And here is another thing," went on the young inventor, who was now
closely scanning the parchment through a powerful magnifying glass,
"do you see those tiny holes here and there, Mr. Jackson?"

"Yes," answered the engineer.

"Were they there before, Abe?" went on Tom, calling the old miner's
attention to them.

"Nary a one," was the answer. "It looks as if some one had been
sticking pins in th' map."

"Not pins," said Tom, "but the sharp points of a pair of dividers,
or compasses, for measuring distances. Andy, or whoever made a copy
of the map, used the dividers to take off distances with. This
clinches it, in my mind."

"But what can you do?" asked Tom's father.

"I don't know," answered the young inventor. "It would be of little
use to go to Andy. Naturally he would deny having made a copy of the
map, and his father would, also. Even though I am sure they have a
copy, I don't see how I am going to make them give it up. It's a
hard case. There's only one thing I see to do."

"What's that?" asked Abe.

"Start for Alaska as soon as possible, and be first on hand at the
valley of gold."

"Good!" cried the miner. "That's the way to talk! We'll start off at
once. I know my way around that country pretty well, an' even though
winter is coming on, I think we can travel in th' airship. That's
one reason why I wanted t' go in one of these flyin' machines.
Winter is no time to be in Alaska, but if we have an airship we
won't mind it, an' it's the best time t' keep other people away, for
th' ordinary miner or prospector can't do anythin' in Alaska in
winter--that is away up north where we're goin'."

"Exactly where are we going?" asked Tom. "I have been so excited
about discovering Andy's trick that I haven't had much time to
consider where we're bound for nor what will be the best plan to
follow."

"Well, we're goin' to a region about seven hundred an' fifty miles
northwest from Sitka," explained the old miner, as he pointed out
the location on the map. "We'll head for what they call th' Snow
Mountains, an' th' valley of gold is in their midst. It's just over
th' Arctic circle, an' pretty cold, let me tell you!"

"You'll be warm enough in Tom's airship, with the electric stoves
going," commented Mr. Jackson.

"Well, we'll need t' be," went on the miner. "Th' valley is full of
caves of ice, an' it's dangerous for th' ordinary traveler. In fact
an airship was the only way I saw out of th' difficulty when I was
there."

"Then you have been to the valley of gold?" asked Tom.

"Well, not exactly TO it," was the reply, "but I was where I could
see it. That was in th' summer, though of course the summer there
isn't like here. I'll tell you how it was."

The miner settled himself more comfortably in his chair, and resumed
his story.

"It was two year ago," he said, "that me an' Jim Mace started to
prospect in Alaska. We didn't have much luck, an' we kept on workin'
our way farther north until we come to these Snow Mountains. Then
our supplies gave out, an' if it hadn't been for some friendly
Eskimos I don't know what we would have done. Jim and me we gave 'em
some trinkets an' sich, and th' Indians began talkin' of a wonderful
valley of gold, where th' stuff lay around in chunks on top of the
ground."

"Me and Jim pricked up our ears at that, so to speak, an' we wanted
to see th' place. After some delay we was taken to th' top of a big
crag, some distance away from where we had been stopping with the
friendly Eskimos, or Indians, as I call 'em. There, away down below,
was a valley--an' a curious sort of a valley it were. It seemed
filled with big bubbles--bubbles made of solid banks of snow or ice,
an' we was told, me an' Jim was, that these were caves of ice, an'
that th' gold was near these caves."

"Well, of course me an' my partner wanted to go down the worst way,
an' try for some gold, but th' Indians wouldn't let us. They said it
was dangerous, for th' ice caves were constantly fallin' in, an'
smashin' whoever was inside. But to prove what they said about th'
gold, they sent one of their number down, while we waited on th'
side of th' mountain."

"Did he get any gold?" asked Tom, eagerly.

For answer the old miner pulled from his pocket a few yellow
pebbles--little stones of dull, gleaming yellow.

"There's some of th' gold from amid th' caves of ice," he remarked
simply. "I kept 'em for a souvenir, hopin' some day I might git back
there. Well, Jim an' me watched th' Indian going down into th'
valley. He come back in about three hours, havin' only gone to th'
nearest cave, an' he had two pockets filled with these little chunks
of solid gold. They gave me an' Jim some, but they wouldn't hear of
us goin' t' th' valley by ourselves."

"Then a bad storm come up, an' we had t' hit th' trail for home--the
Indians' home, I mean--for Jim an' I was far enough away from ours."

"Well, t' make a long story short, Jim an' me tried every way we
knowed t' git t' that valley, but we couldn't. It come off colder
an' colder, an' th' tribe of Indians with whom we lived was attacked
by some of their enemies, an' driven away from their campin'
grounds. Jim an' me, we went too, but not before Jim had drawed this
map on a piece of dog-skin we found in one of the huts. We had an
idea we might get back, some day, an' find the valley, so we'd need
a map t' go by. But poor Jim never got back. He got badly frozen
when the Indians drove us an' our friends away, an' he never got
over it. He died up there in th' ice, an' we buried him. I took th'
map, an' when spring come, I made a hike out of that country. From
then until now I've been plannin' how t' git t' that valley, an' th'
only way I seen was an airship. Then, when I was prospectin' around
out in Colorado I saw Tom's machine hidden in th' trees, an' I
waited until he come along, which part you know as well as I do,"
finished Abe.

"And that's the story of the valley of gold," spoke Mr. Swift.

"That's all there is to it," assented Abe, simply.

"Do you think there is much gold there?" asked Tom.

"Plenty of it--for th' pickin' up," replied the miner. "Around th'
caves of ice it's full of it, but, of course, it's dangerous. An'
th' only way t' git t' it, an' pass th' savage Indians that are all
around in th' mountains about th' valley, is t' fly over their heads
in th' airship."

"Then that's what we'll do," decided Tom.

"Will you go all the way in the RED CLOUD?" inquired Mr. Jackson.

"No, I think I'll send the airship on ahead to some point in
Washington--say Seattle," replied Tom, "put it together there, and
start for the Snow Mountains. In Seattle we can get plenty of
supplies and stores. It will be a good point to start from, and will
save us a long, and perhaps dangerous, flight across the United
States."

"I think that will be the best plan," agreed Mr. Swift. "But what
about Andy--do you think he'll try to follow--or try to get ahead of
you now that he has a copy of the map?"

"He may," answered Tom. "But I have a little trick I'm going to work
on Andy. I will try to learn whether he really has a copy of the
map, though I'm practically certain of it. Then I'll decide what's
best to do."

"In th' meanwhile, will you be gettin' ready?" asked Abe. "I'd like
t' start as soon as we can, for it's awful cold there, the longer
you wait, at this time of th' year."

"Yes, I'll start right to work, getting the RED CLOUD in readiness
to be shipped," promised Tom.




CHAPTER VI

ANDY'S AIRSHIP FLIES


"Hello, Tom, have you heard the news?" asked Ned Newton, of the
young inventor, a few days later.

"What news, Ned? I declare I've been so busy thinking out the best
plan to ship the RED CLOUD to Seattle that I haven't been over to
town. What's going on? Have they decided to build a new church in
Shopton, or something like that?"

"Oh, this about Andy Foger's airship."

"Andy's airship, eh? Is he still working on it?"

"It's all done, so Sam Snedecker was telling me last night, and
to-day Andy is going to try to fly it."

"You don't mean it!"

"Sure thing. Let's go over and watch him."

"He might make a fuss, same as he did when we looked in the window
of his shed."

"He can't make any fuss now. He's got to take his machine out to fly
it, and anybody that wants to can look on. Didn't he watch you make
flights often enough?"

"That's so. Where is the trial flight going to take place?"

"In the big meadow. Come on over."

"Guess I will. I can't do much more now. I've been getting some
boxes and crates made in which to pack the RED CLOUD. I'll have to
take her all apart."

"Then you're really going to hunt for the valley of gold?"

"Sure thing. How about you going, Ned? I spoke to dad about it, and
he said he'd see that you could have a leave of absence."

"Yes, that part's all right. The bank president told me today I
could take a vacation any time I wanted it. In fact that's what I
came over to see you about. I want to thank your father."

"Then you're going?"

"I sure am, Tom! Won't it be great! I hope I can get a little gold
for myself! My folks didn't take very much to the notion of me going
off in an airship, but I told them how often you'd gone on trips,
and come safely back, so they finally gave their consent. When are
you going to start?"

"Oh, in about two weeks. Did I tell you about Andy and the map?"

"No. What trick has he been up to now?"

Thereupon Tom related his suspicions concerning the bully, and also
hinted to Ned of a certain ruse he intended to work on Andy when he
got the chance.

"Well, if you're ready, suppose we go over and see if Andy's airship
will really fly," suggested Ned, after a while. "I'm doubtful
myself, and I'd just like to see him come to grief, after the many
mean things he's done to you."

"Well," spoke Tom slowly, "I don't know as I wish him any bad luck,
but I certainly hope he doesn't use his airship to try to beat us
out in the hunt for the valley of gold."

"Do you think he might?"

"It's possible. But never mind about that now. Come on, we'll go
over to the big meadow."

The two chums walked along together, talking of many things. Tom
told of some communication he had had with Mr. Damon, in which
letters the eccentric man had inquired as to when the trip for
Alaska would be undertaken.

"Then he's going?" asked Ned.

"Oh, yes, it wouldn't seem natural to go without some of Mr. Damon's
blessings. But I think he's going to bring a friend with him."

"Who?"

"Mr. Ralph Parker."

"That gloomy scientist, who is always predicting such terrible
things going to happen?"

"That's the gentleman. You met him once, I believe. Mr. Damon says
Mr. Parker wants to do some scientific studying in the far north, so
I've already counted on him as one of our party. Well, perhaps he
won't do so much predicting this trip."

A little later Tom and Ned came to a big open field. They saw quite
a crowd gathered in it, but no sign of an airship.

"Guess Andy hasn't arrived," spoke Tom.

"No; very likely he's found out that something is wrong with his
machine, and he isn't going to risk it."

But almost as Ned spoke, there sounded cries of excitement from the
crowd, and, a little later, something big and white, with many
wing-shaped stretches of canvas sticking out from all sides, was seen
turning into the big meadow from the broad highway that led to
Andy's house.

"There she is!" cried Ned.

"There's something, at any rate," conceded Tom, as he hastened his
steps. "It's a queer-looking aeroplane, though. My! he's got enough
wings to it!"

"Yes, it's Andy's sure enough," went on Ned "There he is in front,
giving orders like a major-general, and Sam and Pete are helping
him. Let's get closer."

They followed the crowd, which was thronging about the airship that
Andy Foger had made, Tom had a glimpse of the machine. It was a form
of triplane, with three tiers of main wings, and several other sets
of planes, some stationary and some capable of being moved. There
was no gas-bag feature, but amidships was a small, enclosed cabin,
which evidently held the machinery, and was designed to afford
living quarters. In some respects the airship was not unlike Tom's,
and the young inventor could see that Andy had copied some of his
ideas. But Tom cared little about this.

"Do you think it will go up?" asked Ned.

"It looks to me to be too heavy, and his propellers seem too small,"
answered Tom. "He's got to have a very powerful motor to make all
that bulk fly."

The people were crowding in closer around the airship, for the news
that Andy was to attempt a flight had spread about town.

"Now keep back--all of you!" ordered the bully, with a show of
anger. "If any one damages my airship I'll have him arrested! Keep
back, now, or I won't fly!"

"Reminds me of a little kid saying he won't play if he can't have
his own way," whispered Ned to Tom.

"Hello, Andy, give us a ride!"

"Going above the clouds?"

"When are you coming back?"

"Bring down a snowstorm!"

"Be careful that you don't fall!"

These were some of the things shouted at Andy, for he had few
friends among the town lads, on account of his mean ways.

"Keep quiet--all of you!" he ordered. "Get back. You might get hurt
when I start the motor. I'm going to make a flight soon," he added
proudly. "Sam, you come over here and hold this end. Pete, you go
back to the rear. Simpson, you get inside and help me with the
motor. Henderson, you get ready to shove when I tell you."

These last orders were to the two machinists whom Andy had engaged
to help him, and the bully gave himself no end of airs and
importance as he bustled about.

Tom could not help but admit that Andy's machine was a big affair.
There was a great stretch of wings and planes, several rudders other
appliances for which the young inventor could not exactly fathom a
use. He did not think the machine would fly far, if at all. But Andy
was hurrying here and there, getting the triplane in place on a
level stretch of ground, as if he intended to capture some great
prize.

"Are you going to tackle him about stealing a copy of that map?"
asked Ned.

"I will if I get a chance," answered Tom, in a low voice.

He got his opportunity a few minutes later. Andy, hurrying here and
there, came face to face with the young inventor.

"Hello, Andy," spoke Tom, good-naturedly. "So you're going to make a
flight, eh?"

"Yes, I am, and I s'pose you came around to see if you could get any
ideas; didn't you?" sneered Andy.

"Of course," admitted Tom, with an easy laugh. "My airship doesn't
fly, you know, Andy, and I want to see what's wrong with it."

There was a laugh in the crowd, at this, for Tom's success was well
known.

"Are you going to Alaska?" suddenly asked Tom, in a low voice, of
the bully.

"To Alaska? I--I don't--I don't know what you mean?" stammered Andy,
as he turned aside.

"Yes, you do know what I mean," insisted Tom. "And I want to tell
you that the map you have won't be of much use to you. Why, do you
think," he went on, "that Abe would carry the real map around with
him that way? It's easy to make a copy look like an original, Andy,
and also very easy to put false distances and directions on a map
that may fall into the hands of an enemy."

The shot told. Andy's face turned first red and then pale.

"A--a false map!" he stammered. "Wrong directions?"

"Yes--on the copy you made of the map you took from Mr.
Abercrombie," went on Tom.

"I--I didn't make any--Oh, I'm not going to talk to you!" blustered
Andy. "Get out of my way! I'm going to fly my airship."

The bully pushed past Tom, and started toward the triplane. But Tom
had found out what he wanted to know. Andy had made a copy of the
map. From now on there would be every danger that the bully would
make an effort to get to the valley of gold.

But other matters held Andy's attention now. He wanted to try his
airship. With the help of his two cronies, and the machinists, the
machine was gone over, oiled up, and finally, after several false
starts, the motor was set going.

It made a terrific racket, and the whole machine vibrated as though
it would shake apart.

"He hasn't got it well enough braced," said Tom to Ned.

"Out of the way, now, everybody!" yelled Andy. "Keep away or you'll
get hurt! I'm going up!"

He climbed into the cabin of the craft, and took his position at the
steering-wheel. The speed of the motor, its racket and its stream of
sparks increased.

"Let go!" cried Andy to those who were holding his craft.

They released their hold. The triplane moved slowly across the
ground, gathered speed, and, then, under the impulse of the powerful
propellers, ran rapidly over the meadow.

"Hurrah! There he goes!" cried Sam.

"Yes! Now he's going to fly," proudly added Pete Bailey, the other
crony of the bully.

"He'd better fly soon, then, or he'll be in the ditch," said Tom
grimly, for a little, sluggish stream crossed the meadow not far
from where Andy had started.

The next instant, thinking he had momentum enough, Andy tilted his
elevation plane. The clumsy triplane rose into the air and shot
forward.

"There he goes!" cried Sam.

"Hurrah!" yelled the crowd.

Andy had gone up about ten feet, and was making slow progress.

"I guess Tom Swift isn't the only one in Shopton who can build an
airship!" sneered Pete Bailey.

"Look! Look!" yelled Ned. "He's coming down!"

Sure enough, Andy's machine had reached the end of her flight. The
motor stopped with something between a cough and a wheeze. Down
fluttered the aeroplane, like some clumsy bird, down into the ditch,
settling on one side, and then coming to rest, tilted over at a
sharp angle. Andy was pitched out, but landed on the soft mud, for
there had been a thaw. He wasn't hurt much, evidently, for he soon
scrambled to his feet as the crowd surged toward him.

"Well, he flew a little way," observed Ned, grimly.

"But he came down mighty soon," added Tom. "I thought he would. His
machine is too big and clumsy. I've seen enough. Come on, Ned. We'll
get ready to go to Alaska. Andy Foger will never follow us in that
machine."

But Tom was soon to find out how much mistaken he was.




CHAPTER VII

READY FOR THE TRIP


Andy Foger stood looking at his tilted airship. His clothes were
covered with mud from the ditch, some of the muck had splashed over
his face so that he was a pitiable looking object.

"What's the matter?" panted Pete Bailey.

"Are you hurt?" asked Sam Snedecker.

The two cronies had hurried to the side of the bully.

"Matter? Can't you see what's the matter?" demanded Andy wrathfully.
"The machine came down, that's what's the matter! Why didn't you
fellows fix the motor better?" he shouted at the two machinists as
they came running up, followed by the crowd.

"Fix it better? The motor was all right," declared the taller
machinist. "Any of them are likely to stop unexpectedly."

"Well, I didn't think mine would," came from Andy. "Now look at my
airship! It's all busted!"

"No, it isn't hurt much," said the other man, after critically
looking it over. "We can fix it, and you'll fly yet, Andy."

"I hope I do, if only to fool Tom Swift," declared the bully, as he
wiped some of the mud from his face. "Come on, now, help me wheel
the machine back, and I'll try it again."

Andy made another attempt, but this time the machine did not even
rise off the ground, and then, amid the jeers of the crowd, the
discomfited lad took his aeroplane back to the shed in the rear of
his house.

"I'll fix it yet, and make a long flight," he declared. "I'll show
Tom Swift he can't laugh at me!"

"You'll make a long flight eh?" asked one of the machinists. "Where
will you go?"

"Never mind," answered Andy, with a knowing wink. "I've got a plan
up my sleeve--my father and I are going to do something that will
astonish everybody in Shopton," and then Andy, with many nods and
winks, went into the shed, where he began giving orders about the
airship. He wanted the motor changed, and one of the machinists made
some suggestions about the planes, which, he said, would give better
results.

As for Tom and Ned, they strolled away, satisfied that in Andy Foger
they would not have a very dangerous rival, as far as airships were
concerned.

Tom thought matters over during the next few days. He was now
satisfied that Andy had a copy of the map, and, as far as he could
see, there was no way of getting it from him, for he could not prove
to the satisfaction of the legal authorities that the bully actually
had it.

"We'll just have to take a chance, that's all," decided the young
inventor in talking matters over with his father, Ned, and Abe
Abercrombie. "If Andy and some of his crowd trail after us, we'll
just have to run away from them and get to the valley first."

"If they do get there, they won't find it very easy traveling I
reckon," remarked Abe. "They'll get all they want of the caves of
ice. But hadn't we better get a hustle on ourselves, Tom?"

"Yes, we will soon start now. I have the RED CLOUD all packed up for
shipment to Seattle. We will send it on ahead, and then follow, for
it will take some time to get there, even though it's going by fast
freight."

"What about Mr. Damon?" asked Ned. "When is he coming?"

"There's no telling," responded Tom. "He may be on hand any minute,
and, again, he may only show up just as we are starting. I haven't
heard from him in the last day or two."

At that moment there was a knock on the private office in the
aeroplane shed, where Tom, Ned and Abe Abercrombie were talking.

"Who's there?" asked Tom.

"It's me," answered a voice recognizable as that of the colored man
Eradicate.

"What is it, Rad?" asked Tom.

"Why I jest thought I'd tell you dat de blessin' man am comin' down
de road."

"The blessing man?" repeated Tom. "Oh, you mean Mr. Damon."

"Yais, sah, dat's jest who I done mean. An' dere's anodder gen'man
wif him."

"Mr. Parker, I expect," spoke Tom. "Well, tell them to come in here,
Rad."

"Yais, sah. Dey's comin' up de path now, so dey is."

The next moment Tom and the others heard a voice saying:

"Why, bless my necktie! The RED CLOUD is gone!" Mr. Damon had peered
into the shed, and had not seen the airship, for Tom had it packed
up. "I wonder if Tom Swift has gone away? Bless my top-knot, Mr.
Parker, I hope we're not too late!"

"Indeed I hope not," added the scientist. "I wish to make a study of
the caves of ice. I think perhaps they may be working south, and, in
time, this part of the country may be covered deep under a frozen
blanket."

"Cheerful, isn't he, Ned?" asked Tom, with a smile. Then, going to
the door of the shed he called out: "Here we are, Mr. Damon. Glad to
see you, Mr. Parker." This last wasn't exactly true, but Tom wanted
to be polite.

"Bless my collar button, Tom! But what has become of the airship?"
asked Mr. Damon, as he looked about the shed, and saw only a number
of boxes and crates.

"Taken apart, and packed up, ready for the trip to the valley of
gold and the caves of ice," replied the young inventor, and then he
briefly told of their plans.

"Well, that's a good idea," declared the eccentric man. "Mr. Parker
and I are ready to go whenever you are, Tom."

"Then we'll start very soon. I will get all our supplies in Seattle.
Now, to discuss details," and, after Mr. Parker and Mr. Damon had
been made acquainted with the old miner, who told his story in
brief, they began a discussion of the prospective trip.

Mr. Damon and Mr. Parker took up their residence in Tom's house, and
while the eccentric man busied himself in helping our hero, Ned and
Abe Abercrombie in getting ready for the trip to Alaska, the gloomy
scientist went about making "observations" as he called them, with a
view to predicting what might happen in the near future.

He was particularly anxious to get up north, among the caves of ice,
and, several times he repeated his statement that he believed the
mass of ice in Alaska was working down toward the south. But no one
paid much attention to him, though Tom recalled, not without a
little shudder, that Mr. Parker had correctly predicted the
destruction of Earthquake Island, and also the landslide on Phantom
Mountain.

The airship was finally sent off, being forwarded to Seattle in
sections, where it could easily be put together. The matter of Andy
Foger having a duplicate map of the valley of gold was discussed,
but it was agreed that nothing could be done about it. So Tom and
the others devoted all their energies to getting in shape for their
prospective journey.

Mr. Swift was invited to go, but declined on the ground that he had
several inventions to perfect, nor could Mr. Jackson go, as he was
needed to help his employer. So Tom, Ned, Mr. Damon, Mr. Parker and
Abe Abercrombie made up the party. Tom arranged to send wireless
messages to his father from the airship once they were started off
toward the valley of gold, and over the frozen north.

One evening, when Tom had been to pay a last visit to Mary Nestor,
as he was coming past the Foger premises he saw a number of large
vans, loaded with big packing cases coming out of the banker's yard.

"Hum! I wonder if they're moving?" mused our hero. "If they are
they're taking a queer time for it." He paused a moment to look at
the procession of vans. As he did so he heard the voice of Andy
Foger.

"Now, I want you men to be careful of everything!" the bully called
out arrogantly. "If you break anything I'll sue you for damages!"

"Oh, that cub makes me sick!" exclaimed one of the drivers as he
came opposite Tom.

"What are you moving--eggs, that you have to be so careful?" asked
the young inventor, in a low voice.

"Eggs? No! But it might just as well be," was the growling answer.
"He's shipping an airship, all taken to pieces, and he has nervous
prostration for fear it will be broken. I don't believe the old
thing's any good, anyhow."

"An airship--Andy Foger sending away his airship?" gasped Tom.
"Where to?"

"Some place in Alaska," was the startling reply. "Pitka or Sitka, or
some such place like that. It's all in these boxes, G'lang there!"
this to his horses.

"Andy sending his airship to Alaska!" murmured Tom in dismay. "Then
he surely is going to make a try for that valley of gold!"

He turned away, while the snarling voice of the bully rang out on
the night, urging the drivers to be very careful of the boxes and
crates on their trucks.




CHAPTER VIII

A THIEF IN THE NIGHT


Tom Swift hardly knew what to think. He had scarcely believed, in
spite of the fact that he was sure Andy had a copy of the map, that
the bully would actually make an effort to go to the valley of gold.

"And in that airship of his, too," mused Tom. "Well, there's one
consolation, I don't believe he'll go far in that, though it does
sail better than when he made his first attempt. Well, if he's going
to try to beat us, it's a good thing I know it. We can be prepared
for him, now."

Tom, after watching the big vans for a few minutes, turned and kept
on toward his home.

There was more than surprise on the part of Mr. Damon and the others
when Tom told his news. There was alarm, for there was a feeling
that Mr. Foger and his son might adopt unscrupulous tricks.

"But what can we do?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Whitewash him!" exclaimed Eradicate Sampson, who had overheard part
of the conversation. "Dat's what I'd do t' him an' his father, too!
Dat's what I would! Fust I'd let mah mule Boomerang kick him a bit,
an' den, when he was all mussed up, I'd whitewash him!" That was the
colored man's favorite method of dealing with enemies, but, of
course, he could not always carry it out.

However, after considering the matter from all sides, it was decided
that nothing could be done for the present.

"Let them go," said Tom, "I don't believe they'll ever find the
valley of gold. I fancy I threw a scare into Andy, talking as I did
about the map."

"Well, even if the Fogers do get the gold," said Mr. Parker calmly,
"they cannot take away the caves of ice, and it is in them that I am
most interested. I want to prove some of my new theories."

"And we need the gold," said Tom, in a low voice; "don't we, Abe?"

"That's what we do, Tom," answered the old miner.

Preparations were now practically completed for their trip to
Seattle by rail. Tom made some inquiries in the next few days
regarding the Fogers, but only learned that the father and son had
left town, after superintending the shipment of their airship.

"Well, we start to-day," remarked Tom, as he arose one morning. "In
two weeks, at most, we ought to be hovering over the valley, Abe."

"I hope so, Tom. You've got the map put away safely, have you?"

"Sure thing. Are you all ready?"

"Yes."

"Then we'll start for the depot right after breakfast." The
adventurers had arranged to take a local train from Shopton, and get
on a fast express at one of the more important stations.

Good-byes were said, Mr. Swift, Mr. Jackson, Mrs. Baggert and
Eradicate waving their adieus from the porch as Tom and the others
started for the depot. Miss Mary Nestor had bidden our hero farewell
the previous night--it being a sort of second good-bye, for Tom was
a frequent caller at her house, and, if the truth must be told he
rather disliked to leave the young lady.

Tom found a few of his friends at the station, who had gathered
there to give him and Ned BON-VOYAGE.

"Bring us back some nuggets, Tom," pleaded Arthur Norton.

"Bring me a musk-ox if you can shoot one," suggested one.

"A live bear or a trained Eskimo for mine," exclaimed another.

Tom laughingly promised to do the best he could.

"I'll send you some gold nuggets by wireless," said Ned Newton.

It was almost time for the train to arrive. In the crowd on the
platform Tom noticed Pete Bailey.

"He must feel lost without Andy," observed the young inventor to
Ned.

"Yes, I wonder what he's hanging around here for?"

They learned a moment later, for they saw Pete going into the
telegraph office.

"Must be something important for him to wire about," observed Ned.

Tom did not answer. The window of the office was slightly open,
though the day was cool, and he was listening to the clicks of the
telegraph instrument, as the operator sent Pete's message. Tom was
familiar with the Morse code. What was his surprise to hear the
message being sent to Andy Foger at a certain hotel in Chicago. And
the message read:

"Tom Swift's party leaving to-day."

"What in the world does that mean?" thought Tom, but he did not tell
Ned what he had picked up as it went over the wire. "Why should Andy
want to be informed when we leave? That's why Pete was hanging
around here! He had been instructed to let Andy know when we left
for Seattle. There's something queer back of all this."

Tom was still puzzling over the matter when their train roiled in
and he and the others got aboard.

"Well, we're off!" cried Ned.

"Yes; we're off," admitted Tom, and, to himself he added: "No
telling what will happen before we get there, though."

The trip to Chicago was without incident, and, on arrival in the
Windy City, Tom was on the lookout for Andy or his father, but he
did not see them. He made private inquiries at the hotel mentioned
in Pete's telegram, but learned that the Fogers had gone on.

"Perhaps I'm worrying too much," thought Tom. But an event that
occurred a few nights later, when they were speeding across the
continent showed him that there was need of great precaution.

On leaving Chicago, Tom had noticed, among the other passengers
traveling in the same coach as themselves, a man who seemed to be
closely observing each member of the party of gold-hunters. He was a
man with a black mustache, a mustache so black, in fact, that Tom at
once concluded that it had been dyed. This, in itself, was not much,
but there was a certain air about the man--a "sporty" air--which
made Tom suspicious.

"I wouldn't be surprised if that man was a gambler, Ned," he said to
his chum, one afternoon, as they were speeding along. The man in
question was several seats away from Tom.

"He does look like one," agreed Ned.

"I needn't advise you not to fall in with any of his invitations to
play cards, I suppose," went on Tom, after a pause.

"No, indeed, it's something I don't do," answered Ned, with a laugh.
"But it might be a good thing to speak to Abe Abercrombie about him.
If that man's a sharper perhaps Abe knows him, or has seen him, for
Abe has traveled around in the West considerable."

"We'll ask him," agreed Tom, but the miner, when his attention was
called to the man, said he had never seen him before.

"He does look like a confidence man," agreed Abe, "but as long as he
doesn't approach us we can't do anything, and don't need to worry."

There was little need to call the attention of either Mr. Damon or
Mr. Parker to the man, for Mr. Damon was busy watching the scenery,
as this trip was a new one to him, and he was continually blessing
something he saw or thought of. As for Mr. Parker, he was puzzling
over some new theories he had in mind, and he said little to the
others.

On the night of the same day on which Tom had called special
attention to the man with the black mustache, our hero went to his
berth rather late. He had sent some telegrams to his father and one
to Miss Nestor, and, when he turned in he saw the "gambler," as he
had come to call him, going into the smoking compartment of the
coach. Though Tom thought of the man as a gambler, there was no
evidence, as yet, that he was one, and he had made no effort to
approach any of our friends, though he had observed them closely.

How long Tom had been asleep he did not know, but he was suddenly
awakened by feeling his pillow move. At first he thought it was
caused by the swaying of the train, and he was about to go to sleep
again, when there came a movement that he knew could not have been
caused by any unevenness of the roadbed.

Then, like a flash there came to Tom's mind the thought that under
his pillow, in a little leather case he had made for it, was the
map, showing the location of the valley of gold.

He sat up suddenly, and made a lunge for the pillow. He felt a hand
being hurriedly withdrawn. Tom made a grab for it, but the fingers
slipped from his grasp.

"Here! Who are you!" cried Tom, endeavoring to peer through the
darkness.

"It's all right--mistake," murmured a voice.

Tom leaned suddenly forward and parted the curtains of his berth.
There was a dim light burning in the aisle of the car. By the gleam
of it the young inventor caught sight of a man hurrying away, and he
felt sure the fellow who had put his hand under his pillow was the
man with the black mustache. He confirmed this suspicion a moment
later, for the man half turned, as if to look back, and the youth
saw the mustache.

"He--he was after my map!" thought Tom, with a gasp.

He sat bolt upright. What should he do? To raise an alarm now, he
felt, would only bring a denial from the man if he accused him.
There might also be a scene, and the man might get very indignant.
Then, too, Tom and his friends did not want their object made known,
as it would be in the event of Tom raising an outcry and stating
what was under his pillow.

He felt for the map case, opened it and saw, in the gleam of the
light, that it was safe.

"He didn't get it anyhow," murmured our hero. "I guess I won't say
anything until morning, though he did come like a thief in the night
to see if he could steal it."

Tom glanced to where his coat and other clothing hung in the little
berth-hammock, and a hasty search showed that his money and ticket
were safe.

"It was the map he was after all right," mused Tom. "I'll have a
talk with Mr. Damon in the morning about what's best to do. That's
why the fellow has been keeping such a close watch on us. He wanted
to see who had the map."

Then another thought came to Tom.

"If it was the map he was after," he whispered to himself, "he must
know what it's about. Therefore the Fogers must have told him. I'll
wager Andy or his father put this man up to steal the map. Andy's
afraid he hasn't got a copy of the right one. This is getting more
and more mysterious! We must be on our guard all the while. Well,
I'll see what I'll do in the morning."

But in the morning the man with the black mustache was not aboard
the train, and on inquiring of the conductor, Tom learned that the
mysterious stranger had gotten off at a way station shortly after
midnight.




CHAPTER IX

A VANDAL'S ACT


"Bless my penknife!" exclaimed Mr. Daman, the next morning, when he
had been told of Tom's experience in the night, "things are coming
to a pretty pass when our enemies adopt such tactics as this! What
can we do, Tom? Hadn't you better let one of us carry the map?"

"Oh, I guess not," answered the young inventor. "They have had one
try at me, and found that I wasn't napping. I don't believe they'll
try again. No, I'll carry the map."

Tom concealed it in an old wallet, as he thought it was less likely
to attract attention there than in the new case he formerly used.
Still he did not relax his vigilance, and his sleep for the next few
nights was uneasy, as he awakened several times, thinking he felt a
hand under his pillow.

At length Ned suggested that one of them sit up part of the night,
and keep an eye on Tom's berth. This was agreed to, and they divided
the hours of darkness into watches, each one taking a turn at
guarding the precious map. But they might have spared themselves the
trouble, for no further attempt was made to get it.

"I'd just like to know what Andy Foger's plans are?" said Tom one
afternoon, as they were within a few miles of Seattle. "He certainly
must have made up his mind quickly, after he saw the map, about
going in search of the gold."

"Maybe his father proposed it," suggested Ned. "I heard, in our
bank, that Mr. Foger has lost considerable money lately, and he may
need more."

"I shouldn't wonder. Well, if they are going to Sitka, Alaska, to
assemble their ship, I think they'll have trouble, for supplies are
harder to get there than in Seattle. But we'll soon be on our way
ourselves, if nothing happens. I hope all the parts of the RED CLOUD
arrive safely."

They did, as Tom learned a few hours later, when they had taken up
their quarters in a Seattle hotel, and he had made inquiries at the
railroad office. In the freight depot were all the boxes and crates
containing the parts of the big airship, and by comparison with a
list he had made, the young inventor found that not a single part
was missing.

"We'll soon have her together again," he said to his friends, "and
then we'll start for Alaska."

"Where are you going to assemble the airship?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I've got to hire some sort of a big shed," explained Tom. "I heard
of one I think I can get. It's out at the fair grounds, and was used
some time ago when they had a balloon ascension here. It will be
just what I need."

"How long before we can start for the gold valley?" asked the old
miner anxiously.

"Oh, in about a week," answered the lad, "that is, if everything
goes well."

Tom lost no time in getting to work. He had the different parts of
his airship carted to the big shed which he hired. This building was
on one edge of the fair grounds, and there was a large, level space
which was admirably adapted for trying the big craft, when once more
it was put together.

The gold-seekers worked hard, and to such good purpose that in three
days most of the ship was together once more, and the RED CLOUD
looked like herself again. Tom hired a couple of machinists to aid
him in assembling the motor, and some of the gas appliances and
other apparatus.

"Ha! Bless my rubber shoes!" cried Mr. Damon in delight, as he
looked at the big craft "This is like old times, Tom!"

"Yes, indeed," agreed our hero.

"Are you going to give it a preliminary tryout?" asked Ned.

"Oh, yes, I think we can do that to-morrow," replied Tom. "I want to
know that everything is in good working shape before I trust the
ship on the trip to the frozen north. There are several problems I
want to work out, too, for I think I will need a different kind of
gas up where the temperature is so low."

"It certainly is cold up here," agreed Ned, for they were now much
farther north than when they were in Shopton, and, besides, winter
was coming on. It was not the best time of the year to journey into
Alaska, but they had no choice. To delay, especially now, might mean
that their enemies would get ahead of them.

"We'll be warm in the airship, though; won't we?" asked Abe.

"Oh, yes," answered Tom. "We'll be warm, and have plenty to eat.
Which reminds me that I must begin to see about our stock of
provisions and other supplies, for we'll soon be on our way."

Work on the airship was hastened to such good advantage the next two
days that it was in shape for a trial flight, and, one afternoon,
the RED CLOUD was wheeled from the shed out into big field, the gas
was generated, and the motor started.

There was a little hitch, due to the fact that some of the machine
adjustments were wrong, but Tom soon had that remedied and then,
with the big propellers whirling around, the airship was sent
scudding across the field.

Another moment and it rose like a great eagle, and sailed through
the air, while a small crowd that had daily gathered in the hope of
seeing a flight, sent up a cheer.

"Does it work all right?" asked Ned anxiously, as he stood in the
pilothouse beside his chum.

"As good as it did in Shopton," answered the young inventor,
proudly.

"Bless my pocketbook! but that's lucky," exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Then
we can soon start, eh?"

"As soon as we are stocked up," replied the lad.

Tom put the airship through a number of "stunts" to test her
stability and the rudder control, much to the delight of the
gathering throng. Everything was found to work well, and after
ascending to a considerable height, to the no small alarm of the old
miner, Tom made a quick descent, with the motor shut off. The RED
CLOUD conducted herself perfectly, and there was nothing else to be
desired.

She was sent down to earth and wheeled back into the shed, and not
without some difficulty, for the crowd, which was now very large,
wanted to get near enough to touch the wonderful craft.

"To-morrow I'll arrange about the supplies and provisions, and we'll
stock her up," said Tom to his companions. "Now you folks had better
go back to the hotel."

"Aren't you coming?" asked Ned.

I'm going to bunk here in the shed to-night, said the young
inventor.

"What for?"

"I can't take any chances now that the RED CLOUD is in shape for
flying. Some of the Foger crowd might be hanging around, and break
in here to damage her."

"But the watchman will be on guard," suggested Ned, for since the
hiring of the shed, the young inventor had engaged a man to remain
on duty all night.

"I know," answered Tom Swift, "but I'm not going to take any
chances. I'll stay here with the watchman."

Ned offered to share the vigil with his chum, and, after some
objection Tom consented. The others went back to the hotel,
promising to return early in the morning.

Tom slept heavily that night, much heavier than he was in the habit
of doing. So did Ned, and their deep breathing as they lay in their
staterooms, in the cabin of the airship, told of physical weariness,
for they had worked hard to re-assemble the RED CLOUD.

The watchman was seated in a chair just inside the big door of the
shed, near a small stove in which was a fire to take off the chill
of the big place. The guard had slept all day, and there was no
excuse for him nodding in the way that he did.

"Queer, how drowsy I feel," he murmured several times. "It's only a
little after midnight, too," he added, looking at his watch, "Guess
I'll walk around a bit to rouse myself."

He firmly intended to do this, but he thought he would wait just a
few minutes more, and he stretched out his legs and got comfortable
in the chair.

Three minutes more and the watchman was asleep--sound asleep, while
a strange, sweet, sickish odor seemed to fill the atmosphere about
him.

There was a noise at the door of the shed, a door in which there
were several cracks. A man outside laid aside something that looked
like an air pump. He applied one eye to a crack, and looked in on
the sleeping watchman.

"He's off," the man murmured. "I thought he'd never get to sleep!
Now to get in and dose those two lads! Then I'll have the place to
myself!"

There was a clicking noise about the lock on the shed door. It was
not a very secure lock at best, and, under the skilful fingers of
the midnight visitor, it quickly gave way. The man entered. He gave
one look at the slumbering watchman, listened to his heavy
breathing, and then went softly toward the airship, which looked to
be immense in the comparatively small shed--taking up nearly all the
space.

The intruder peered in through the cabin windows where Ned and Tom
were asleep. Once more there was in the atmosphere a sickish odor.
The man again worked the instrument which was like a small air pump,
taking care not to get his own face too near it. Presently he
stopped and listened.

"They're doped," he murmured. He arose, and took from his mouth and
nose a handkerchief saturated with some chemical that had rendered
him immune to the effects of the sleep-producing that he had
generated. "Sound asleep," he added. Then, taking out a long, keen
knife, the vandal stole toward where the great wings of the RED
CLOUD stretched out in the dim light like the pinions of a bird.
There was a ripping, tearing, rending sound, as the vandal cut and
slashed, but Tom, Ned and the watchman slumbered on.




CHAPTER X

TOM IS HELD UP


Tom Swift stirred uneasily in his heavy sleep. He dreamed that he
was again in his berth in the railroad car, and that the thief was
feeling under his pillow for the map. Only, this time, there seemed
to be hands feeling about his clothing, trying to locate his inner
pockets.

The lad murmured something unintelligible, but he did not awaken.
The fumes prevented that. However, his movements showed that the
effect of the drug was wearing off. It was intended only for
temporary use, and it lasted less time than it would otherwise have
done in a warmer, moister climate, for the cold, crisp air that
penetrated the shed from outside dispelled the fumes.

"Guess I'd better not chance it," murmured the intruder. "He may not
have it on him, and if I go through all his pockets I'll wake him
up. Anyhow, I've done what they paid me for. I don't believe they'll
sail in this airship."

The vandal gave one glance at the sleeping lads, and stole from the
cabin of the craft. He looked at his work of ruin, and then tiptoed
past the slumbering watchman. A moment later and he was outside the
shed, hurrying away through the night.

Several hours after this Mr. Damon and the old miner were pounding
on the door of the shed. Mr. Parker, the scientist, had remained at
the hotel, for he said he wanted to work out a few calculations
regarding some of his theories.

"I thought we'd find them up by this time," spoke the eccentric man,
as he again knocked on the door. "Tom said he had lots to do to-day."

"Maybe they are working inside, and can't hear our knocks,"
suggested Abe. "Try th' door."

"Bless my heart! I never thought of that," exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I
believe I will."

The door swung open as he pushed it, for it had not been locked when
the intruder left. The first thing Mr. Damon saw was the watchman,
still asleep in his chair.

"Bless my soul!" the old man shouted. "Look at this, Abe!"

"Something's wrong!" cried the miner, sniffing the air. "There's
been crooked work here! Where are the boys?"

Mr. Damon was close to the airship. He looked in the cabin window.

"Here they are, and they're both asleep, too!" he called. "And--bless
my eyeglasses! Look at the airship! The planes and wings are
all cut and slashed! Something has happened! The RED CLOUD is all
but ruined!"

Abe hastened to his side. He looked at the damage done, and a fierce
look came over his face.

"The Fogers again!" he murmured. "We'll pay 'em back for this! But
first we must see to the boys!"

They needed small attention, however. The opening of the big door
had let in a flood of fresh air, and this dispelled the last of the
fumes. The watchman was the first to revive. The sleep caused by the
chemical, sprayed from the air-pump by the vandal, had been
succeeded by a natural slumber, and this was the case with Ned and
Tom. They were soon aroused, and looked with wonder, not unmixed
with rage, at the work done in the night.

Every one of the principal planes of the airship, each of the
rudders, and some of the auxiliary wings had been cut by a sharp
knife--some in several places. The canvas hung in shreds and
patches, and the trim RED CLOUD looked like some old tramp airship
now. Tom could scarcely repress a groan.

"Who did it?" he gasped.

"And with us here on guard!" added Ned.

"I--I must have fallen asleep," admitted the watchman in confusion.

"You were all asleep," said Mr. Damon. "I couldn't rouse you!"

"And there was th' smell of chloroform, or something like it in th'
shed," added the miner.

"But look at the airship!" groaned Tom.

"Is it ruined--can't we go to the valley of gold?" asked Ned.

Tom did not answer for a few minutes. He was walking around looking
at his damaged craft. The sleepy feeling was rapidly leaving him, as
well as Ned and the watchman.

"Bless my watch chain!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "What an ugly, mean
piece of work. Can you repair it, Tom?"

"I think so," was the hesitating answer. "It is not as bad as I
feared at first. Luckily the gas-bag has not been touched, for, if
it had, we could hardly have repaired it. I can fix the wings and
the rudders. The propellers have not been damaged, nor has the motor
been touched. I think they must have made another attempt to take
the map off me," he went on, as he looked at several pockets that
had been turned inside out.

An examination of the door showed how the lock had been forced, and
the adventurers could easily guess the rest. But who the midnight
vandal was they could not tell, though Tom and the others were sure
it was some one hired by the Fogers.

"They wanted to delay us," said Tom. "They thought this would hold
us back, but it won't--for long. We'll get right to work, and make
new planes and rudders. Fortunately the framework isn't hurt any."

Once Tom got into action nothing held him back. He hardly wanted to
stop for meals. New canvas was ordered, and that very afternoon some
of the damaged wings had been repaired. In the meanwhile the stores
and provisions that had been ordered were arriving, and, under the
direction of the miner and Mr. Damon were put in the RED CLOUD. Tom
and Ned, with the help of a man they hired, worked diligently to
replace the damaged planes and rudders. Mr. Parker came out to the
airship shed, but he was of little use as a helper, for he was
continually stopping to jot down some memoranda about an observation
he thought of, or else he would lay aside his tools to go outside,
look at the weather, and make predictions.

But Tom and the others labored to such good advantage that in three
days they had repaired most of the damage done. Luckily the vandal
had cut and slashed in a hurry, and his malicious work was only half
accomplished. There was no clue to his identity.

No trace was seen of the Fogers, and Tom hardly expected it, for he
thought they were in Sitka by this time. Nor were any suspicious
persons seen hanging around the shed. The adventurers left their
rooms at the hotel, and took up their quarters in the airship that
would soon be their home for many days. They wanted to be where they
could watch the craft, and two guards were engaged.

"We'll start to-morrow," Tom announced gaily one evening when, after
a hard day's work the last of the damaged planes had been repaired.

"Start fer th' valley of gold?" asked the miner.

"Yes. Everything is in good shape now. I want to go into town, to
send some messages home, telling dad we'll soon be on our way, and I
also want to get a few things."

"Shall I come?" asked Ned.

"No, I'd rather you'd stay here," spoke Tom, in a low voice. "We
can't take any more chances of being delayed, and, as it's pretty
well known that we'll sail to-morrow, the Foger crowd may try some
more of their tricks. No, I'll go to town alone, Ned. I'll soon be
back, however. You stay here."

But Tom came nearly never coming back. As he was returning from
sending the messages, and purchasing a few things he needed for the
trip, he passed through a dark street. He was walking along,
thinking of what the future might hold for him and his companions,
after they reached the caves of ice, when, just as he got to a high
board fence, surrounding some vacant lots, he heard some one whisper
hoarsely:

"Here he comes!"

The young inventor was on his guard instantly. He jumped back to
avoid a moving shadow, but was too late. Something struck him on the
back of his head, and he felt his senses leaving him. He struggled
against the feeling, and he realized, even in that exciting moment,
that the thick collar of his heavy overcoat, which he had turned up
because of a cold wind, had, perhaps, saved him from a broken skull.

"Hold him!" commanded another voice. "I'll go through him!"

The packages dropped from Tom's nerveless fingers. He felt himself
sinking down, in spite of his fierce determination not to succumb.
He felt several hands moving rapidly about his body, and then he
struck blindly out at the footpads.




CHAPTER XI

OFF FOR THE FROZEN NORTH


Tom Swift felt as if he was struggling in some dream or nightmare.
He felt strong hands holding him and saw evil faces leering at him.

Then gradually his brain cleared. His muscles, that had been
weakened by the cowardly blow, grew strong. He felt his fist land
heavily on some one's face. He heard a smothered gasp of pain.

Then came the sound of footsteps running--Tom heard the "ping" of a
policeman's night-stick on the sidewalk.

"Here come the cops!" he heard one voice exclaim.

"Did you get it?" asked another.

"No, I can't find it. Cut for it now!"

They released the young inventor so suddenly that he staggered about
and almost fell.

The next moment Tom was looking into the face of a big policeman,
who was half supporting him.

"What's the matter?" asked the officer.

"Hold-up, I guess," mumbled the lad. "There they go!" he pointed
toward two dark forms slipping along down the dimly-lighted street.

The officer drew his revolver, and fired two shots in the air, but
the fleeing figures did not stop.

"How did it happen?" asked the policeman. "Did they get anything
from you?"

"No--I guess not," answered Tom. He saw the packages containing his
purchases lying where they had fallen. A touch told him his watch
and pocketbook were safe. The precious map was in a belt about his
waist, and that had not been removed. "No, they didn't get
anything," he assured the officer.

"I came along too quick for 'em, I guess," spoke the bluecoat. "This
is a bad neighborhood. There have been several hold-ups here of
late, but I was on the job too soon for these fellows. Hello, Mike,"
as another officer came running up in answer to the shots and the
raps of the night-stick. "Couple of strong-arm-men tackled this
young fellow just now. I saw something going on as I turned the
corner, and I rapped and ran up. They went down that way. I fired at
'em. You take after 'em, Mike, and I'll stay here. Don't believe you
can land 'em, but try! I came up too quick to allow 'em to get
anything, though."

Tom did not contradict this. He knew, however, that, had the men who
attacked him wished to take his watch or money, they could have done
it several times before the officer arrived.

"It was the map they were after," thought Tom, "not my watch or
money. This is more of the Foger's work. We must get away from
here."

The policeman inquired for more particulars from Tom, who related
how the hold-up had taken place. The young inventor, however, said
nothing about the map he carried, letting the officer think it was
an ordinary attempt at robbery, for Tom did not want any reference
in the newspapers to his search for the valley of gold.

Presently the other policeman returned, having been unable to get
any trace of the daring men. The two bluecoats wanted to accompany
Tom back to the airship shed, for his own safety, but he declared
there was no more danger, and, after having given his name, so that
the affair might be reported at headquarters, he was allowed to go
on his way. His head ached from the blow, but otherwise he was
unhurt.

"Those fellows have been keeping watch for me," the lad reasoned, as
he walked quickly toward the airship shed. "They must have been
shadowing me, and they hid there until I came back. Andy Foger and
his father must be getting desperate. I think I know why, too. That
little dig I gave Andy about his map is bearing fruit. He begins to
think it's the wrong map, and he wants to get hold of the right one.
Well, they shan't if I can help it. We'll be away from here in the
morning."

There was indignation and some alarm among Tom's friends when he
told his story a little later that night.

"Bless my walking-stick!" cried Mr. Damon. "You'll need a bodyguard
after this."

"I'd just like t' git my hands on them fellers!" exclaimed the old
miner. "I'd show 'em!" and a look at his rugged frame and his
muscular arms and gnarled hands showed Tom and Ned that in the event
of a fight they could count much on Abe Abercrombie.

"I am glad there will be no more delays, and that we will soon be
moving northward," spoke Mr. Parker, a little later. "I am anxious
to confirm my theory about the advance of the ice crust, I met a man
to-day who had just returned from the north of Alaska. He said that
a severe winter had already set in up there. So I am anxious to get
to the ice caves."

"So am I," added Tom, but it was for a different reason.

They were all up early the next morning, for there were several
things to look after before they started on the trip that might
bring much of danger to the adventurers. Under Tom's direction, more
gas was generated, and forced into the big bag. A last adjustment
was made of the planes, wing tips and rudders, and the motor was
given a try-out.

"I guess everything is all right," announced the young inventor.
"We'll take her out."

The RED CLOUD was wheeled from the big shed, and placed on the open
lot, where she would have room to rush across the ground to acquire
momentum enough to rise in the air. Tom, whenever it was practical,
always mounted this way, rather than by means of the lifting gas,
as, in the event of a wind, he would have better control of the
ship, while it was ascending into the upper currents of air, than
when it was rising like a balloon.

"All aboard!" cried the lad, as he looked to see that the course was
clear. Early as it was, there was quite a crowd on hand to witness
the flight, as there had been every day of late, for the population
of Seattle was curious regarding the big craft of the air.

"Let her go!" cried Ned Newton, enthusiastically.

Tom took his place in the steering-tower, or pilothouse, which was
forward of the main cabin. Ned was in the engine-room, ready to give
any assistance if needed. Mr. Damon, Mr. Parker and Abe Abercrombie
were in the main cabin, looking out of the windows at the rapidly
increasing throng.

"Here we go!" cried the young inventor, as he pulled the lever
starting the motor, There was a buzz and a hum. The powerful
propellers whirred around like blurs of light. Forward shot the
great airship over the ground, gathering speed at every revolution
of the blades.

Tom tilted the forward rudder to lift the ship. Suddenly it shot
over the heads of the crowd. There was a cheer and some applause.

"Off for the frozen north!" cried Ned, waving his cap.

Tom shifted the rudder, to change the course of the airship. Mr.
Damon was gazing on the crowd below.

"Tom! Tom!" he cried suddenly. "There's the man with the black
mustache--the man who tried to rob you in the sleeping-car!" He
pointed downward to some one in the throng.

"He can't get us now!" exclaimed Tom, as he increased the speed of
the RED CLOUD, and then, taking up a telescope, after setting the
automatic steering gear, Tom pointed the glass at the person whom
Mr. Damon had indicated.




CHAPTER XII

PELTED BY HAILSTONES


"Yes, that's the man all right," observed the lad. "But if he came
here to have another try for the map, he's too late. I hope we don't
land now until we are in the valley of gold." Tom passed the
telescope to Ned, who confirmed the identification.

"Perhaps he came to see if we started, and then he'll report to Andy
Foger or his father by telegraph," suggested Mr. Damon.

"Perhaps," admitted Tom. "Anyhow, we're well rid of our enemies--at
least for a time. They can't follow us up in the air." He turned
another lever and the RED CLOUD shot forward at increased speed.

"Maybe Andy will race us," suggested Ned.

"I'm not afraid of anything his airship can do," declared Tom. "I
don't believe it will even get up off the ground, though he did make
a short flight before he packed up to follow us. It's a wonder he
wouldn't think of something himself, instead of trying to pattern
after some one else. He tried to beat me in building a speeding
automobile, and now he wants to get ahead of me in an airship. Well,
let him try. I'll beat him out, just as I've done before."

They were now over the outskirts of Seattle, flying along about a
thousand feet high, and they could dimly make out curious crowds
gazing up at them. The throng that had been around the airship shed
had disappeared from view behind a little hill, and, of course, the
man with the black mustache was no longer visible, but Tom felt as
if his sinister eyes were still gazing upward, seeking to discern
the occupants of the airship.

"We're well on our way now," observed Ned, after a while, during
which interval he and Tom had inspected the machinery, and found it
working satisfactorily.

"Yes, and the RED CLOUD is doing better than she ever did before,"
said Tom. "I think it did her good to take her apart and put her
together again. It sort of freshened her up. This machine is my
special pride. I hope nothing happens to her on this journey to the
caves of ice."

"If my theory is borne out, we will have to be careful not to get
caught in the crush of ice, as it makes its way toward the south,"
spoke Mr. Parker with an air as if he almost wished such a thing to
happen, that he might be vindicated.

"Oh, we'll take good care that the RED CLOUD isn't nipped between
two bergs," Tom declared.

But he little knew of the dire fate that was to overtake the RED
CLOUD, and how close a call they were to have for their very lives.

"No matter what care you exercise, you cannot overcome the awful
power of the grinding ice," declared the gloomy scientist. "I
predict that we will see most wonderful and terrifying sights."

"Bless my hatband!" cried Mr. Damon, "don't say such dreadful
things, Parker my dear man! Be more cheerful; can't you?"

"Science cannot be cheerful when foretelling events of a dire
nature," was the response. "I would not do my duty if I did not hold
to my theories."

"Well, just hold to them a little more closely," suggested Mr.
Damon. "Don't tell them to us so often, and have them get on our
nerves, Parker, my dear man. Bless my nail-file! be more cheerful.
And that reminds me, when are we going to have dinner, Tom?"

"Whenever you want it, Mr. Damon. Are you going to act as cook
again?"

"I think I will, and I'll just go to the galley now, and see about
getting a meal. It will take my mind off the dreadful things Mr.
Parker says."

But if the gloomy scientific man heard this little "dig" he did not
respond to it. He was busy jotting down figures on a piece of paper,
multiplying and dividing them to get at some result in a complicated
problem he was working on, regarding the power of an iceberg in
proportion to its size, to exert a lateral pressure when sliding
down a grade of fifteen per cent.

Mr. Damon got an early dinner, as they had breakfasted almost at
dawn that morning, in order to get a good start. The meal was much
enjoyed, and to Abe Abercrombie was quite a novelty, for he had
never before partaken of food so high up in the air, the barograph
of the RED CLOUD showing an elevation of a little over twelve
thousand feet.

"It's certainly great," the old miner observed, as he looked down
toward the earth below them, stretched out like some great relief
map. "It sure is wonderful an' some scrumptious! I never thought I'd
be ridin' one of these critters. But they're th' only thing t' git
t' this hidden valley with. We might prospect around for a year, and
be driven back by the Indians and Eskimos a dozen times. But with
this we can go over their heads, and get all the gold we want."

"Is there enough to give every one all he wants?" asked Tom, with a
quizzical smile. "I don't know that I ever had enough."

"Me either," added Ned Newton.

"Oh, there's lots of gold there," declared the old miner. "The thing
to do is to get it and we can sure do that now."

The remainder of the day passed uneventfully, though Tom cast
anxious looks at the weather as night set in, and Ned, noting his
chum's uneasiness, asked:

"Worrying about anything, Tom?"

"Yes, I am," was the reply. "I think we're in for a hard storm, and
I don't know just how the airship will behave up in these northern
regions. It's getting much colder, and the gas in the bag is
condensing more than I thought it would. I will have to increase our
speed to keep us moving along at this elevation."

The motor was adjusted to give more power, and, having set it so
that it, as well as the rudders, would be controlled automatically,
Tom rejoined his companions in the main cabin, where, as night
settled down, they gathered to eat the evening meal.

Through the night the great airship plowed her way. At times Tom
arose to look at some of the recording instruments. It was growing
colder, and this further reduced the volume of the gas, but as the
speed of the ship was sufficient to send her along, sustained by the
planes and wings alone, if necessary, the young inventor did not
worry much.

Morning broke gray and cheerless. A few flakes of snow fell. There
was every indication of a heavy storm. They were high above a
desolate and wild country now, hovering over a sparsely settled
region where they could see great forests, stretches of snow-covered
rocks, and towering mountain crags.

The snow, which had been lazily falling, suddenly ceased. Tom looked
out in surprise. A moment later there came a sound as if some giant
fingers were beating a tattoo on the roof of the main cabin.

"What's that!" cried Ned.

"Bless my umbrella! has anything happened?" demanded Mr. Damon.

"It's a hail storm!" exclaimed Tom. "We've run into a big hail
storm. Look at those frozen stones! They're as big as hens' eggs!"

On a little platform in front of the steering-house could be seen
falling immense hailstones. They played a tattoo on the wooden
planks.

"A hail storm! Bless my overshoes!" cried Mr. Damon.

"A hail storm!" echoed Mr. Parker. "I expected we would have one.
The hailstones will become even larger than this!"

"Cheerful," remarked Tom in a low voice, with an apprehensive look
at Ned.

"Is there any danger?" asked his chum.

"Danger? Plenty of it," replied the young inventor. "The frozen
particles may rip open the gas bag." He stopped suddenly and looked
at a gage on the wall of the steering-tower--a gage that showed the
gas pressure.

"One compartment of the bag has been ripped open!" cried Tom. "The
vapor is escaping! The whole bag may soon be torn apart!"

The noise of the pelting hailstones increased. The roar of the
storm, the bombardment of the icy globules, and the moaning of the
wind struck terror to the hearts of the gold-seekers.

"What's to be done?" yelled Ned.

"We must go up, to get above the storm, or else descend and find
some shelter!" answered Tom. "I'll first see if I can send the ship
up above the clouds!"

He increased the speed of the motor so that the propellers would aid
in taking the ship higher up, while the gas-generating machine was
set in operation to pour the lifting vapor into the big bag.




CHAPTER XIII

A FRIGHTENED INDIAN


The violence of the hail storm, the clatter of the frozen pellets as
they bombarded the airship, the rolling, swaying motion of the craft
as Tom endeavored to send it aloft, all combined to throw the
passengers of the RED CLOUD into a state of panic.

"Bless my very existence!" cried Mr. Damon, "this is almost as bad
as when we were caught in the hurricane at Earthquake Island!"

"I am sure that this storm is but the forerunner of some dire
calamity!" declared Mr. Parker.

"I'm afraid it's all up with us," came from Abe Abercrombie, as he
looked about for some way of escape.

"Do you think you can pull us through, Tom?" asked Ned Newton, who,
not having had much experience in airships had yet to learn Tom's
skill in manipulating them.

The young inventor alone seemed to keep his nerve. Coolly and calmly
he stood at his post of duty, shifting the wing planes from moment
to moment, managing the elevation rudder, and, at the same time,
keeping his eye on the registering dial of the gas-generating
machine.

"It's all right," said Tom, more easily than he felt. "We are going
up slowly. You might see if you can induce the gas machine to do any
better, Mr. Damon. We are wasting some of the vapor because of the
leak in the bag, but we can manufacture it faster than it escapes,
so I guess we'll be all right."

"Mr. Parker, may I ask you to oil the main motor? You will see the
places marked where the oil is to go in. Ned, you help him. Here,
Abe, come over here and give me a hand. This wind makes the rudders
hard to twist."

The young inventor could not have chosen a better method of
relieving the fears of his friends than by giving them something to
do to take their minds off their own troubles. They hurried to the
tasks he had assigned to them, and, in a few minutes, there were no
more doubts expressed.

Not that the RED CLOUD was out of danger, Far from it. The storm was
increasing in violence, and the hailstones seemed to double in
number. Then, too, being forced upward as she was, the airship's bag
was pelted all the harder, for the speed of the craft, added to the
velocity of the falling chunks of hail, made them strike on the
surface of the ship with greater violence.

Tom was anxiously watching the barograph, to note their height. The
RED CLOUD was now about two and a half miles high, and slowly
mounting upward. The gas machine was working to its fullest
capacity, and the fact that they did not rise more quickly told Tom,
more plainly than words could have done, that there were several
additional leaks in the gas-bag.

"I'll take her up another thousand feet," he announced grimly.
"Then, if we're not above the storm it will be useless to go
higher."

"Why?" asked Ned, who had come back to stand beside his chum.

"Because we can't possibly get above the storm without tearing the
ship to pieces. I had rather descend."

"But won't that be just as bad?"

"Not necessarily. There are often storms in the upper regions which
do not get down to the surface of the earth, snow and hail storms
particularly. Hail, you know, is supposed to be formed by drops of
rain being hurled up and down in a sort of circular, spiral motion
through alternate strata of air--first freezing and then warm, which
accounts for the onion-like layers seen when a hailstone is cut in
half."

"That is right," broke in Mr. Parker, who was listening to the young
inventor. "By going down this hail storm may change into a harmless
rain storm. But, in spite of that fact, we are in a dangerous
climate, where we must expect all sorts of queer happenings."

"Nice, comfortable sort of a companion to have along on a gold-hunting
expedition, isn't He?" asked Tom of Ned, making a wry face
as Mr. Parker moved away. "But I haven't any time to think of that.
Say, this is getting fierce!"

Well might he say so. The wind had further increased in violence,
and while the storm of hailstones seemed to be about the same, the
missiles had nearly doubled in size.

"Better go down," advised Ned. "We may fall if you don't."

"Guess I will," assented Tom. "There's no use going higher. I doubt
if I could, anyhow, with all this wind pressure, and with the
gas-bag leaking. Down she is!"

As he spoke he shifted the levers, and changed the valve wheels. In
an instant the RED CLOUD began to shoot toward the earth.

"What's happened? What in th' name of Bloody Gulch are we up
ag'in'?" demanded the old miner, springing to his feet.

"We're going down--that's all," answered Tom, calmly, but he was far
from feeling that way, and he had grave fears for the safety of
himself and his companions.

Down, down, down went the RED CLOUD, in the midst of the hail storm.
But if the gold-seekers had hoped to escape the pelting of the
frozen globules they were mistaken. The stones still seemed to
increase in size and number. The gas machine register showed a
sudden lack of pressure, not due to the shutting off of the
apparatus.

"Look!" cried Ned, pointing to the dial.

"Yes--more punctures," said Tom, grimly.

"What's to be done?" asked Mr. Damon, who had finished the task Tom
allotted to him. "Bless my handkerchief! what's to be done?"

"Seek shelter if the storm doesn't stop when we get to the earth
level," answered Tom.

"Shelter? What sort of shelter? There are no airship sheds in this
desolate region."

"I may be able to send the ship under some overhanging mountain
crag," answered the young inventor, "and that will keep off the
hailstones."

Eagerly Tom and Ned, who stood together in the pilothouse peered
forward through the storm.

The wind was less violent now that they were in the lower currents
of air, but the hail had not ceased.

Suddenly Tom gave a cry. Ned looked at him anxiously. Had some new
calamity befallen them? But Tom's voice sounded more in relief than
in alarm. The next instant he called:

"Look ahead there, Ned, and tell me what you see."

"I see something big and black," answered the other lad, after a
moment's hesitation. "Why, it's a big black hole!" he added.

"That's what I made it out to be," went on Tom, "but I wanted to be
sure. It's the opening to a cave or hole in the side of the
mountain. I take it."

"You're right," agreed Ned.

"Then we're safe," declared Tom.

"Safe? How?"

"I'm going to take the RED CLOUD in there out of the storm."

"Can you do it? Is the opening big enough?"

"Plenty. It's larger than my shed at home, Jove! but I'm glad I saw
that in time, or there would have been nothing left of the gas-bag!"

With skilful hands Tom turned the rudders and sent the airship down
on a slant toward the earth, aiming for the entrance to the cave,
which loomed up in the storm. When the craft was low enough down so
that the superstructure would not scrape the top of the cave, Tom
sent her ahead on the level. But he need have had no fears, for the
hole was large enough to have admitted a craft twice the size of the
RED CLOUD.

A few minutes later the airship slid inside the great cavern, as
easily as if coming to rest in the yard of Tom's house. The roof of
the cave was high over their heads, and they were safe from the
storm. The cessation from the deafening sound of the pelting
hailstones seemed curious to them at first.

"Well, bless my shoelaces! if this isn't luck!" cried Mr. Damon, as
he opened the door of the cabin, and looked about the cave in which
they now found themselves. It was comparatively light, for the
entrance was very large, though the rear of the cavern was in gloom.

"Yes, indeed, we got to it just in time,'" agreed Tom. "Now let's
see what sort of a place it is. We'll have to explore it."

"There may be a landslide, or the roof may come down on our heads,"
objected Mr. Parker.

"Oh, my dear Parker! please be a little more cheerful," begged Mr.
Damon.

The adventurers followed Tom from the airship, and all but the young
inventor gazed curiously at the interior of the cave. His first
thought was for his airship. He glanced up at the gas-bag, and noted
several bad rents in it.

"I hope we can fix them," Tom thought dubiously.

But the attention of all was suddenly arrested by something that
occurred just then. From the dark recess of the cavern there sounded
a fearful yell or scream. It was echoed back a thousand-fold by the
rocky walls of the cave, Then there dashed past the little group of
gold-seekers a dark figure.

"Look out! It's a bear!" shouted Mr. Damon. "A bear! It's an Eskimo
Indian!" yelled Abe Abercrombie, "an' he's skeered nigh t' death!
Look at him run!"

As they gazed toward the lighted entrance of the cave they saw
leaping and running from it an Indian who quickly scudded out into
the hail storm.

"An Indian," exclaimed Tom. "An Indian in the cave! If there's one,
there may be more. I guess we'd better look to our guns. They may
attack us!" and he hurried back into the airship, followed by Ned
and the others.




CHAPTER XIV

THE RIVAL AIRSHIP


Well armed, the adventurers again ventured out into the cave. But
they need not have been alarmed so soon, for there were no signs of
any more Indians.

"I guess that one was a stray Eskimo who took shelter in here from
the storm," said Abe Abercrombie.

"Are we in the neighborhood of the Alaskan Indians and Eskimos?"
inquired Ned.

"Yes, there are lots of Indians in this region," answered the old
miner, "but not so many Eskimos. A few come down from th' north, but
we'll see more of them, an' fewer of th' pure-blooded Indians as we
get nearer th' valley of gold. Though t' my mind th' Indians an'
Eskimos are pretty much alike."

"Well, if we don't have to defend ourselves from an attack of
Indians, suppose we look over the airship," proposed Tom.

"It's too dark to see very much," objected Ned. But this was
overcome when Tom started up a dynamo, and brought out a portable
search-light which was played upon the superstructure of the RED
CLOUD. The gas-bag was the only part of the craft they feared for,
as the hailstones could not damage the iron or wooden structure and
the planes were made in sections, and in such a manner that rents in
them could easily be repaired. So, in fact, could the gas-bag be
mended, but it was harder work.

"Well, she's got some bad tears in her," announced Tom as the light
flashed over the big bag. "Luckily I have plenty of the material,
and some cement, so I think we can mend the rents, though it will
take some days. Nothing could have been better for us than this
cave. We'll stay here until we're ready to go on."

"Unless the Indians drive us out," said Abe, in a low tone.

"Why, do you think there is any danger of that?" inquired Tom.

"Well, th' brown-skinned beggars aren't any too friendly," responded
the old miner. "Th' one that was in here will be sure to tell th'
others of some big spirit that flew into th' cave, an' they'll be
crowdin' around here when th' storm's over. It may be we can fight
'em off, though."

"Maybe they won't attack us," suggested Ned, hopefully. "Perhaps we
can make them believe we are spirits, and that it will be unlucky to
interfere with us."

"Perhaps," admitted Abe, "though my experience has been that these
Indians are a bad lot. They haven't much respect for spirits of any
kind, an' they'll soon find out we're human. But then, we'll wait
an' see what happens."

"And, in the meantime, have something to eat," put in Mr. Damon.
"Bless my knife and fork! but the hail storm gave me an appetite."

In fact, there were few things which did not give Mr. Damon an
appetite, Tom thought with a smile. But the meal idea was considered
very timely, and soon the amateur cook was busy in the galley of the
airship, whence speedily came savory odors. The electric lights were
switched on, and the adventurers were quickly made comfortable in
the cave, which so well sheltered the RED CLOUD. Tom completed his
inspection of the craft, and was relieved to find that while there
were a number of small rents, none was very large, and all could be
mended in time.

Abe Abercrombie took a look outside the cave after the meal had been
served. The old miner declared that they had made a good advance on
their northern journey for, though he could not tell their exact
location, he knew by the character of the landscape that they had
passed the boundaries of Alaska.

"A few more days' traveling at the rate we came will bring us to the
Snow Mountains and the valley of gold," he said.

"Well, we won't average such speed as we did during the hail storm,"
said Tom. "The wind of that carried us along at a terrific pace. But
we will get there in plenty of time, I think."

"Why; is there any particular rush?" asked Ned.

"There's no telling when the Fogers may appear," answered the young
inventor in a low voice. "But now we must get to work to repair
damage."

The hail storm had ceased, and, with the passing of the clouds the
cave was made lighter. But Tom did not depend on this, for he set up
powerful searchlights, by the gleams of which he and his companions
began the repairing of the torn gas-bag.

They worked all the remainder of that day, and were at it again
early the next morning, making good progress.

"We can go forward again, in about two days," spoke Tom. "I want to
give the cement on the patches plenty of chance to dry."

"Then I will have time to go out and make some observations, will I
not?" asked Mr. Parker. "I think this cave is a very old one, and I
may be able to find some evidences in it that the sea of ice is
slowly working its way down from the polar regions."

"I hope you don't," whispered Ned to Tom, who shook his head
dubiously as the gloomy scientist left the cave.

The weather was very cold, but, in the cavern it was hardly noticed.
The adventurers were warmly dressed, and when they did get chilly
from working over the airship, they had but to go into the well-heated
and cozy cabin to warm themselves.

It was on the third day of their habitation in the cave, and work on
putting the patches on the gas-bag was almost finished. Mr. Parker
had gone out to make further observations, his previous ones not
having satisfied him. Tom was on an improvised platform, putting a
patch on top of the bag, when he heard a sudden yell, and some one
dashed into the cavern.

"They're coming! They're coming!" cried a voice, and Tom, looking
down, saw Mr. Parker, apparently in a state of great fear.

"What's coming?" demanded the young inventor, "the icebergs?"

"No--the Indians!" yelled the scientist. "A whole tribe of them is
rushing this way!"

"I thought so!" cried Abe Abercrombie. "Where's my gun?" and he
dashed into the airship.

Tom slid down off the platform.

"Get ready for a fight!" he gasped. "Where are you, Ned?"

"Here I am. We'd better get to the mouth of the cave, and drive 'em
back from there."

"Yes. If I'd only thought, we could have blockaded it in some way.
It's as big as a barn now, and they can rush us if they have a mind
to. But we'll do our best!"

The adventurers were now all armed, even to Mr. Parker. The
scientist had recovered from his first fright, when he spied the
Indians coming over the snow, as he was "observing" some natural
phenomenon. Tom, even in his excitement, noticed that the professor
was curiously examining his gun, evidently more with a view to
seeing how it was made, and on which principle it was operated,
rather than to discover how to use it.

"If it comes to a fight, just point it at the Indians, pull the
trigger, and work that lever," explained the young inventor. "It's
an automatic gun."

"I see," answered Mr. Parker. "Very curious. I had no idea they
worked this way."

"Oh, if I only had my electric rifle in shape!" sighed Tom, as he
dashed forward at the side of Ned.

"Your electric rifle?"

"Yes, I've got a new kind of weapon--very effective. I have it
almost finished. It's in the airship, but I can't use it just yet.
However, maybe these repeaters will do the work."

By this time they were at the entrance of the cave, and, looking out
they saw about a hundred Indians, dressed in furs, striding across
the snowy plain that stretched out from the foot of the mountain in
which was the cavern.

"They're certainly comin' on," observed Abe, grimly. "Git ready for
'em, boys!"

The gold-seekers lined up at the mouth of the cave, with guns in
their hands. At the sight of this small, but formidable force, the
Indians halted. They were armed with guns of ancient make, while
some had spears, and others bows and arrows. A few had grabbed up
stones as weapons.

There appeared to be a consultation going on among them, and,
presently, one of the number, evidently a chief or a spokesman, gave
his gun to one of his followers, and, holding his hands above his
head, while he waved a rag that might have once been white, came
forward.

"By Jove!" exclaimed Tom. "It's a flag of truce! He wants to talk
with us I believe!"

"Bless my cartridges!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Can they speak
English?"

"A little," answered Abe Abercrombie. "I can talk some of their
lingo, too. Maybe I'd better see what they want."

"I guess it would be a good plan," suggested Tom, and, accordingly
the old miner stepped forward. The Indian came on, until Abe
motioned for him to halt.

"I reckon that's as far as it'll be healthy for you t' come," spoke
Abe, grimly. "Now what do you fellers want?"

Thereupon there ensued a rapid exchange of jargon between the miner
and the Indian. Abe seemed much relieved as the talk went on, until
there came what seemed like a demand on the part of the dark-hued
native.

"No, you don't! None of that!" muttered Abe. "If you had your way
you'd take everything we have."

"What is it? What does he want?" asked Tom in a low voice.

"Why, the beggar began fair enough," replied the miner. "He said one
of their number had been in the cave when a storm came an' saw a big
spirit fly in, with men on its back. He ran away an' now others have
come to see what it was. They don't guess it's an airship, for
they've never seen one, but they know we're white folks, an' they
always want things white folks have got."

"This fellow is a sort of chief, an' he says the white folks?--that's
us, you know?--have taken th' Indians' cave. He says he doesn't
want t' have any trouble, an' that we can stay here as long as we
like, but that we must give him an' his followers a lot of food.
Says they hain't got much. Land! Those beggars would eat us out of
everything we had if we'd let 'em!"

"What are you going to tell them?" inquired Mr. Damon.

"I'm goin' t' tell 'em t' go t' grass, or words t' that effect,"
replied Abe. "They haven't any weapons that amount t' anything, an'
we can stand 'em off. Besides, we'll soon be goin' away from here;
won't we, Tom?"

"Yes, but--"

"Oh, there's no use givin' in to 'em," interrupted Abe. "If you give
'em half a loaf, they want two. Th' only way is t' be firm. I'll
tell 'em we can't accommodate 'em."

Thereupon he began once more to talk to the Indians in their own
tongue. His words were at first received in silence, and then angry
cries came from the natives. The chief made a gesture of protest.

"Well, if you don't like it, you know what you kin do!" declared
Abe. "We've got th' best part of our journey before us, an' we can't
give away our supplies. Go hunt food if you want it, ye lazy
beggars!"

The peaceful demeanor of the Indians now turned to rage. The leader
dropped the rag that had served for a flag of truce, and took back
his gun.

"Look out! There's going to be trouble!" cried Tom.

"Well, we're ready for 'em!" answered Abe, grimly.

There was a moment of hesitation among the natives. Then they seemed
to hold a consultation with the chief. It was over shortly. They
broke into a run, and quickly advanced toward the cave. Tom and the
others held their guns in readiness.

Suddenly the Indians halted. They gazed upward, and pointed to
something in the air above their heads. They gave utterance to cries
of fear.

"What is it; another storm coming?" asked Tom.

"Let's look," suggested Ned. He and Tom stepped to the mouth of the
cave--they went outside. There was little danger from the natives
now, as their attention was fixed on something else.

A moment later Tom and Ned saw what this was.

Floating in the air, almost over the cave, was a great airship--a
large craft, nearly the size of the RED CLOUD. Hardly able to
believe the evidence of their eyes, Tom and Ned watched it. Whence
had it come? Whither was it going?

"It's a triplane!" murmured Ned.

"A triplane!" repeated Tom. "Yes--it is--and it's the airship of
Andy Foger! Our rivals are on our track!"

He continued to gaze upward as the triplane shot forward, the noise
of the motor being plainly heard. Then, with howls of fear, the
Indians turned and fled. The rival airship had vanquished them.




CHAPTER XV

THE RACE


Astonished and terrified as the Indians had been at the sight of the
big-winged craft, high in the air above their heads, Tom and the
others were no less surprised, though, of course, their fear was not
exactly the same as that of the Alaskan natives.

"Do you really think that is Andy Foger?" asked Ned, as they watched
the progress of the triplane.

"I'm almost sure of it," replied Tom. "That craft is built exactly
as his was, but I never expected him to have such good luck sailing
it."

"It isn't going very fast," objected Ned.

"No, but it can navigate pretty well, and that's something. He must
have hustled to get it together and reach this point with it."

"Yes, but he didn't have to travel as far as we did," went on Ned.
"He put his ship together at Sitka, and we came from Seattle."

"Bless my memoranda book!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "The Fogers here!
What's to be done about it?"

"Nothing, I guess," answered Tom. "I'd just as soon they wouldn't
see us. I don't believe they will. Get back into the cave. We must
use strategy now to get ahead of them. There will be a race to the
valley of gold."

"Well, he served us one good turn, anyhow, though he didn't mean
to," put in Abe Abercrombie.

"How?" asked Mr. Parker, who was still examining his gun, as though
trying to understand it.

"He scared away them pesky natives," went on the miner. "Otherwise
we might have had a fight, an' while I reckon we could have beat
'em, it's best not to fight if you kin git out of it."

The gold-seekers had withdrawn inside the mouth of the cave, where
they could watch the progress of the rival airship without being
seen. The Indians had disappeared beyond a snow-covered hill.

The airship of Andy Foger, for such it subsequently proved to be,
floated slowly onward. Its progress was not marked with the speed of
Tom's craft, though whether or not the occupants of the ANTHONY (as
Andy had vain-gloriously named his craft after himself) were
speeding up their motor, was a matter of conjecture.

The adventurers held a short consultation, while standing at the
mouth of the cave watching the progress of the ANTHONY. It rose in
the air, and circled about.

"He certainly IS trying to pick us up," declared Ned.

"Well, we'll start out after him to-morrow," decided Tom. "I think
all the patches will hold then."

They resumed work on the RED CLOUD, and that night Tom announced
that they would start in the morning. Meanwhile Andy's craft had
disappeared from sight. There was no further evidence of the
Indians.

"I don't reckon they'll come back," spoke Abe, grimly. "They think
we are sure-enough spirits, now, able to call creatures out of the
air whenever we want 'em. But still we must be on our guard."

As Mr. Parker was not of much service in helping on the airship he
agreed to be a sort of guard and took his place just outside the
cave, where he could make "observations," and, at the same time
watch for the reappearance of Indians. They had little fear of an
attack at night, for Abe said the Alaskans were not fond of
darkness.

The cold seemed to increase, and, even in the sheltered cave the
adventurers felt it. There were several heavy flurries of snow that
afternoon, and winter seemed setting in with a vengeance. The
daylight, too, was not of long duration, for the sun was well south
now, and in the far polar regions it was perpetual night.

After a brief inspection of the ship the next morning, following a
good night's rest, when they were not disturbed by any visits from
the natives, Tom announced that they would set sail. The day was a
clear one, but very cold, and the gold-seekers were glad of the
shelter of the warm cabin.

The RED CLOUD was wheeled from the cave, and set on a level place.
There was not room enough to make a flying start, and ascend by
means of the planes and propellers, so the gas-bag method was used.
The generating machine was put in operation, and soon the big red
bag that hovered over the craft began to fill. Tom was glad to see
that none of the several compartments leaked. The bag had been well
repaired.

Suddenly the RED CLOUD shot up in the air. Up above the towering
snow-covered crags it mounted, and then, with a whizz and a roar,
the propellers were set going.

"Once more northward bound!" cried Tom, as he took his place in the
pilothouse.

"And we'll see if we can beat Andy Foger there," added Ned.

All that morning the RED CLOUD shot ahead at good speed. The craft
had suffered no permanent damage during her fight with the hail
storm, and was as good as ever. They ate dinner high in the air,
while sailing over a great stretch of whiteness, where the snow lay
many feet deep on the level, and where great mountain crags were so
covered with the glistening mantle and a coating of ice as to
resemble the great bergs that float in the polar sea.

"I wouldn't want to be wrecked here," said Ned, with a shudder, as
he looked down. "We'd never get away. Does any one live down there,
Abe?"

"Yes, there are scattered tribes of Indians and Alaskan natives.
They live by hunting and fishing, and travel around by means of dog
sledges. But it's a dreary life. Me an' my partner had all we wanted
of it. An airship for mine!"

"I wonder what's become of Andy?" spoke Tom, that afternoon. "I
haven't sighted him, and I've been using the powerful telescope. I
can't pick him up, though he can't be so very far ahead of us."

"Let me try," suggested Ned. "Put her up a bit, Tom, where I can
look down. Andy won't dare go very high. Maybe I can sight him."

The RED CLOUD shot upward as the young inventor shifted the
elevation rudder, and the bank clerk, with the powerful glass to his
eye, swept the space below him. For half an hour he looked in vain.
Then, with a little start of surprise he handed the glass to his
chum.

"See what you make that out to be," suggested Ned. "It looks like a
big bird, yet I haven't seen any other birds to-day."

Tom looked. He peered earnestly through the telescope for a minute,
and then cried:

"It's Andy's airship! He's ahead of us! We must catch him! Ned, you
and Mr. Damon speed up the motor! The race is on!"

In a few minutes the great airship was hurling herself through
space, and, in less than ten minutes Andy's craft could be made out
plainly with the naked eye. Fifteen minutes more and the RED CLOUD
was almost up to her. Then those aboard the ANTHONY must have caught
sight of their pursuers, for there was a sudden increase in speed on
the part of the unscrupulous Foger crowd, who sought to steal a
march on Tom and his friends.

"The race is on!" repeated the young inventor grimly, as he pulled
the speed lever over another notch.




CHAPTER XVI

THE FALL OF THE ANTHONY


Had it not been for what was at stake, the race between the two big
airships would have been an inspiring one to those aboard Tom's
craft. As it was they were too anxious to overcome the unfair
advantage taken by Andy to look for any of the finer points in the
contest of the air.

"There's no denying that he's got a pretty good craft there,"
conceded Tom, as he watched the progress of his rival. "I never
thought Andy Foger could have done it."

"He didn't do very much of it," declared Ned. "He hired the best
part of that made. Andy hasn't any inventive ideas. He probably said
he wanted an airship, and his dad put up the money and hired men to
build it for him. Andy, Sam and Pete only tinkered around on it."

Later Tom and his chum learned that this was so--that Mr. Foger had
engaged the services of an expert to make the airship. This man had
been taken to Sitka with the Fogers, and had materially aided them
in re-assembling the craft.

"Do you think he can beat us?" asked Ned, anxiously.

"No!" exclaimed Tom, confidently. "There's only one craft that can
beat my RED CLOUD and that's my monoplane the BUTTERFLY. But I have
in mind plans for a speedier machine than even the monoplane.
However I haven't any fear that Andy can keep up to us in this
craft. I haven't begun to fly yet, and I'm pretty sure, from the way
his is going, that he has used his limit of speed."

"Then why don't you get ahead of him?" asked Mr. Damon. "Bless my
tape-measure! the way to win a race is to beat."

"Not this kind of a race," and the young inventor spoke seriously.
"If I got ahead of Andy now, he'd simply trail along and follow us.
That's his game. He wants me to be the path-finder, for, since I
cast a doubt on the correctness of the map, a copy of which he
stole, he isn't sure where he's going. He'd ask nothing better than
to follow us."

"Then what are you going to do if you don't get ahead of him?" asked
Ned.

"I'm going to press him close until night," answered Tom, "and when
it's dark, I'm going to shoot ahead, and, by morning we'll be so far
away that he can't catch up to us."

"Good idea! That's th' stuff!" cried Abe with enthusiasm.

"He's a sneak!" burst out Mr. Damon. "I'd like to see him left
behind."

Tom carried out his plan. The remainder of the day he hung just on
Andy's flank, sometimes shooting high up, almost out of sight, and
again coming down, just to show what the RED CLOUD could do when
pressed.

As for those aboard the ANTHONY, they seemed to be trying to
increase their speed, but, if that was their object they did not
have much success, for the big, clumsy triplane only labored along.

"I wonder who he's got with him?" said Ned, as darkness was closing
down. "I can't make out any one by this glass. They stick pretty
closely to the cabin."

"Oh, probably Andy's father is there," said "and, perhaps, some of
Mr. Foger's acquaintances. I guess Mr. Foger is as anxious to get
this gold as Andy is."

"He certainly needs money," admitted Ned. "Jove! but I hope we beat
him!"

But alas for Tom's hopes! His plan of waiting until night and then
putting on such speed as would leave Andy behind could not be
carried out. It was tried, but something went wrong with the main
motor, and only half power could be developed. Tom and Ned labored
over it nearly all night, to no effect, and through the hours of
darkness they could see the lights from the cabin of the ANTHONY
gleaming just ahead of them. Evidently the bully's airship could not
make enough speed to run away from the RED CLOUD, or else it was the
plan of the Foger crowd to keep in Tom's vicinity.

The direction held by Andy's craft was a general northwestern one,
and Tom knew, in time, and that very soon, it would bring the
ANTHONY over the valley of gold. Evidently Andy was placing some
faith in his copy of the stolen map.

"Once I get this motor in shape I'll soon pull away from him,"
announced Tom, about four o'clock that morning, while he and Ned,
aided by Mr. Damon, were still laboring over the refractory machine.

"What are you going to do?" asked Ned.

"It's too late to carry out my original plan," went on Tom. "We're
getting so near the place now that I want to be there ahead of every
one else. So as soon as we can, I'm going to push the RED CLOUD for
all she's worth, and get to the valley of gold first. If possession
is nine points of the law, I want those nine points."

"That's the way to talk!" cried Abe. "Once we git on th' ground we
kin hold our own!"

It was breakfast time before Tom had the motor repaired, and he
decided to have a good meal before starting to speed up his craft.
He felt better after some hot coffee, for he and the others were
weary from their night of labor.

"Now for the test!" he cried, as he went back to the engine-room.
"Here's where we give Andy the go-by, and I don't think he can catch
us!"

There was an increasing hum to the powerful motor, the great
propellers whirled around at twice their former number of
revolutions, and the airship suddenly shot ahead.

Those on the ANTHOMY must have been watching for some such move as
that, for, no sooner had Tom's craft begun to creep up on his rival
than the forward craft also shot ahead.

But the airship was not built that could compete with Tom's. Like a
racer overhauling a cart-horse, the RED CLOUD whizzed through the
air. In a spirit of fun the young inventor sent his machine within a
few feet of Andy's. He had a double purpose in this, for he wanted
to show the bully that he did not fear him, and he wanted to see if
he could discover who was aboard.

Tom did catch a glimpse of Andy and his father in the cabin of the
ANTHONY, and he also saw a couple of men working frantically over
the machinery.

"They're going to try to catch us!" called Tom to Ned.

This was evident a moment later, for, after the RED CLOUD had forged
ahead, her rival made a clumsy attempt to follow. The ANTHONY did
show a burst of speed, and, for a moment Tom was apprehensive lest
he had underrated his rival's prowess.

Suddenly Ned, who was looking from a projecting side window of the
pilothouse, back toward Andy's ship, cried out in alarm.

"What's the matter?" shouted Tom.

"The airship--Andy's--two of the main wings have collapsed!"

Tom looked. It was but too true. The strain under which the ANTHONY
had been put when the machinists increased the speed, had been too
much for the frame. Two wings broke, and now hung uselessly down,
one on either side. The ANTHONY shot toward the snow-covered earth!

"They're falling!" cried Mr. Parker.

"Yes," added Tom, grimly, "the race is over as far as they are
concerned."

"Bless my soul! Won't they be killed?" cried Mr. Damon.

"There's not much danger," replied the young inventor. "They can
vol-plane back to earth. That's what they're doing," he added a
moment later, as he witnessed the maneuver of the crippled craft.
"They're in no danger, but I don't believe they'll get to the valley
of gold this trip!"

Tom was soon to learn how easily he could be mistaken.




CHAPTER  XVII

HITTING THE ICE MOUNTAIN


Onward sped the RED CLOUD. For a moment after the accident to Andy's
ship, Tom had slowed up his craft, but he soon went on again, after
he had satisfied himself that his enemies were in no danger.

"Don't you think--that is to say--I know they can't expect anything
from us," spoke Mr. Damon, "but for humanity's sake, hadn't we
better stop and help them, Tom?"

"I hardly think so," replied the young inventor. "In the first place
they would hardly thank us for doing so, and, in the second, I don't
believe they need help. They are almost safely down now."

"I don't just mean that," went on the odd man. "But they may starve
to death. This is a very desolate country over which we are
sailing."

"They must have a supply of food in their ship," declared Tom, "and
they have brought their plight on themselves."

"They're in no great danger," put in Abe.

"There are plenty of natives around here, an' if the Fogers need
food or aid they can git it by payin' for it. Why, for the sake of
th' parts of their damaged airship, th' Eskimos would take th' whole
party back t' Sitka and feed 'em well on th' trip. Oh, they're all
right."

"Very well, if you say so," assented Mr. Damon. He looked back to
watch the ANTHONY slowly settling to earth. It came gently down,
proving that Tom knew whereof he spoke, when he had said they could
vol-plane down. Before the RED CLOUD was out of sight Tom and his
companions saw Andy and his father leave their wrecked craft and
venture out on the snow-covered ground. The Fogers gazed enviously
after the airship of our hero as they saw him still forging toward
the goal.

"I guess Andy's stolen map won't be of much use to him," mused Tom.
"Now we can put on all the speed we like," and with that he shifted
the gears and levers until the airship was making exceedingly good
time toward the valley of gold.

The remainder of that day saw our adventurers pursuing their way
eagerly. At times they were flying high, and again, when Abe
suggested that they go down to observe the character of the country
over which they were passing, they skimmed along, just above the big
mountains, which seemed almost like icebergs, so covered were they
with frost and snow.

They were indeed in a wild and desolate country. Below them
stretched a seemingly endless waste of snow and ice--great forests
interspersed with treeless patches, while now and then they sailed
over a frozen lake.

Once in a while they had glimpses of bands of Indians, dressed in
furs, hunting. At such times the natives would look up, on hearing
the noise made by the motor of the airship, and catching a glimpse
of what must have seemed to them like some supernatural object, they
would fall down prostrate in amazement and fear.

"Airships are pretty much of a novelty up here," remarked Abe with a
grim smile.

The weather was now very cold, and the gold-seekers had to get out
their heavy fur garments, of which they had brought along a goodly
supply. True, it was warm in the cabin of the airship, but at times,
they wanted to venture out on the deck to get fresh air, or to make
some adjustments to the wing planes, and, on such occasions the
keen, frosty air, as it was driven past them by the motion of the
craft, made even the thickest garments seem none too warm. Then,
too, it was colder at the elevation at which they flew than down on
the ground.

Another day found them in a still wilder and more desolate part of
Alaska. There were scarcely any signs of habitation now, and the
snow and ice seemed so thick that even a long summer of sunshine
could hardly have melted it. The hours of daylight, too, were
growing less and less the farther north they went.

"Do you think you can pilot us right to the Snow Mountains, Abe?"
asked Tom, on the third day after the accident to Andy's airship.
"Let's get out the map, and have another look at it. We must be
getting near the place now. We'll look at the map."

The young inventor went to his stateroom where he kept the important
document in a small desk, and the others heard him rummaging around.
He muttered impatiently, and Ned heard his chum say: "I thought sure
I put it in here." Then ensued a further search, and presently Tom
came out, his face wearing rather a puzzled and worried look, and he
asked: "Say, Abe, I didn't give that map back to you; did I?"

"Nope," answered the miner. "I ain't seen it since just before th'
hail storm. We was lookin' at it then."

"That's when I remember it," went on Tom, "and I thought I put it in
my desk. I didn't, by any possible chance give it to you; did I,
Ned?"

"Me? No, I haven't seen it."

"That's funny," went on Tom. "I'll look once more. Maybe it got
under some papers."

They heard him rummaging again in his desk.

"Bless my bank-book!" cried Mr. Damon. "I hope nothing has happened
to that map. We can't find the valley of gold without it."

Tom came back again.

"I can't find it." he said, hopelessly.

Then ensued a frantic search. Every possible place in the airship
was looked into, but the precious map did not turn up.

"Perhaps the Fogers took it," suggested Mr. Parker, who had helped
in the hunt, in a dreamy sort of fashion.

"That's not possible," said Tom. "They haven't been near enough to
us since I saw the map last. No, the last time I had it was just
before the hail storm, and, in the excitement of repairing the ship,
I have mislaid it."

"Maybe it's back there in the big cave," suggested Ned.

"It's possible," admitted the young inventor. "Pshaw! It's very
careless of me!"

"If you think it's in the cave, we'd better go back there and have a
hunt for it," suggested Mr. Damon. "Otherwise we are on a wild-goose
chase."

"Don't go back!" exclaimed old Abe. "I think we can find th' valley
of gold without th' map, now that we have come this far. I sort of
remember th' marks on that parchment, an' we are in the right
neighborhood now, for I kin see some of th' landmarks my partner and
I saw. I say, let's keep on! We can cruise around a bit until we
strike th' right place. That won't take us so long as it would to go
back to the cave. Besides, if we go back, the Fogers may get ahead
of us!"

"With their broken airship?" asked Ned.

"Can't they repair it?" demanded Abe.

"Hardly--up in this wild country," was Tom's opinion. "But perhaps
it WILL be just as well to keep on. I have a hazy remembrance of the
distances and directions on the map, and, though it will take longer
to hunt out the valley this way, I think we can do it. I can't
forgive myself for my carelessness! I should have kept a copy of the
map, or given one of you folks one."

But they would not hear of him blaming himself, and said it might
have happened to any one. It was decided that the map must be lost
in the big cave, and if it was there it was not likely to be found
by their enemies.

"We'll jest have t' prospect about a bit," declared Abe, "only we'll
do it in th' air instead of on th' ground."

It was dusk when the fruitless search for the map was over, and they
sat in the cabin discussing matters. The lights had not yet been
switched on, and the RED CLOUD was skimming along under the
influence of the automatic rudders and the propellers.

"Well, suppose we have supper," proposed Mr. Damon, who seemed to
think eating a remedy for many ills, mental and bodily. "Bless my
desert-spoon, but I'm hungry!"

He started toward the galley, while Tom went forward to the
pilothouse. Hardly had he reached it than there came a terrific
crash, and the airship seemed tossed back by some giant hand. Every
one was thrown off his feet, and the lights which had been turned on
suddenly went out.

"What's the matter?" cried Ned.

"Have we hit anything?" demanded Mr. Damon.

"Hit anything! I should say we had!" yelled Tom. "We've knocked a
piece off a big mountain of ice!"

As he spoke the airship began slowly settling toward the earth, for
her machinery had been stopped by the terrific impact.




CHAPTER XVIII

A FIGHT WITH MUSK OXEN


"Can I help you, Tom? What's to be done?" demanded Ned Newton, as he
rushed to where his chum was yanking on various levers and gear
wheels.

"Wait a minute!" gasped the young inventor. "I want to throw on the
storage battery, and that will give us some light. Then we can see
what we are doing." An instant later the whole ship was illuminated,
and those aboard her felt calmer. Still the RED CLOUD continued to
sink.

"Can't we do something?" yelled Ned. "Start the propellers, Tom!"

"No, I'll use the gas. I can't see where we're heading for, as the
searchlight is out of business. We may be in the midst of a lot of
bergs. We were flying too low. Just start the gas generating
machine."

Ned hurried to obey this order. He saw Tom's object. With the big
bag full of gas the airship would settle gently to earth as easily
as though under the command of the propellers and wing planes.

In a few minutes the hissing of the machine told that the vapor was
being forced into the bag and a little later the downward motion of
the ship was checked. She moved more and more slowly toward the
earth, until, with a little jar, she settled down, and came to rest.
But she was on such an uneven keel that the cabin was tilted at an
unpleasant angle.

"Bless my salt-cellar!" cried Mr. Damon. "We are almost standing on
our heads!"

"Better that than not standing at all," replied Tom, grimly. "Now to
see what the damage is."

He scrambled from the forward door of the cabin, no easy task
considering how it was tilted, and the others followed him. It was
too dark to note just how much damage had been inflicted, but Tom
was relieved to see, as nearly as he could judge, that it was
confined to the forward part of the front platform or deck of the
ship. The wooden planking was split, but the extent of the break
could not be ascertained until daylight. The searchlight connections
had been broken by the collision, and it could not be used.

"Now to take a look at the machinery," suggested the young inventor,
when he had walked around his craft. "That is what I am worried
about more than about the outside."

But, to their joy, they found only a small break in the motor. That
was what caused it to stop, and also put the dynamo out of
commission.

"We can easily fix that," Tom declared.

"Bless my coffee-spoon!" cried Mr. Damon, who seemed to be running
to table accessories in his blessings. Perhaps it was because it was
so near supper time. "Bless my coffee-spoon! But how did it happen?"

"We were running too low," declared Tom. "I had forgotten that we
were likely to get among tall mountain peaks at any moment, and I
set the elevation rudder too low. It was my fault. I should have
been on the lookout. We must have struck the mountain of ice a
glancing blow, or the result would have been worse than it is. We'll
come out of it all right, as it is."

"We can't do anything to-night," observed Ned.

"Only eat," put in Mr. Damon, "and we'll have to take our coffee
cups half full, for everything is so tilted that it's like topsy-turvey
land. It makes me fairly dizzy!"

But he forgot this in the work of getting a meal, and, though it was
prepared under considerable difficulties, at last it was ready.

Bright and early the next morning Tom was up making another
inspection of his ship. He found that even if the forward deck was
not repaired they could go on, as soon as the motor was in shape,
but, as they had some spare wood aboard, it was decided to
temporarily repair the smashed platform.

It was cold work, even wearing their thick garments; but, after
laboring until their fingers were stiff from the frost, Ned hit on
the idea of building a big fire of some evergreen trees near where
the ship lay.

"Say, that's all right!" declared Tom, as the warmth of the blaze
made itself felt. "We can work better, now!"

The RED CLOUD was tilted on some rough and uneven ground, in among
some little hills. On either side arose big peaks, the one in
particular that they had hit towering nearly fifteen thousand feet.

Everything was covered with snow and ice, and, in fact, the ice was
so thick on the top of the mountains that the crags resembled
icebergs rather than stony peaks. The crash of the airship had
brought down a great section of this solid rock-ice.

"Do you think we are anywhere near the valley of gold?" asked Mr.
Damon that afternoon, when the work was nearly finished.

"It's somewhere in this vicinity." declared Abe. "Me an' my partner
passed through jest such a place as this on our way there. I
wouldn't wonder but what it wasn't more than a few hundred miles
away, now."

"Then we'll soon be there," said Tom. "I'll start in the morning. I
could go to-night, but there are a few adjustments I want to make to
the motor, and, besides, I think it will be safer, now that we are
among these peaks, to navigate in daylight, or at least with the
searchlight going. I should have thought of that before."

"Then, if you're not going to start away at once," spoke Mr. Parker,
"I think I will walk around a bit, and make some observations. I
think we are now in the region where we may expect a movement of the
ice. I want to test it, and see if it is traveling in a southerly
direction. If it is not now, it will soon be doing that, and the
coating of ice may reach even as far as New York."

"Pleasant prospect," murmured Tom. Then he said aloud: "Well if you
are going, Mr. Parker, we'll be with you. I'll be glad of the chance
to stretch my legs, and what more remains to be done, can be
finished in the morning."

Mr. Damon declared that he did not relish a tramp over the ice and
snow, and would stay in the warm cabin, but Tom and Ned, with Abe
and Mr. Parker started off. The scientist pointed out what he
claimed were evidences of the impending movement of the ice, while
Abe explained to the lads how the Alaskan Indians of that
neighborhood hunted and fished, and how they made huts of blocks of
ice.

"We are nearing th' Arctic circle," the old miner said, "and we'll
soon be among th' most savage of the Eskimo tribes."

"Is there any hunting around here?" asked Ned.

"Yes, plenty of musk ox," answered Abe.

"I wish I'd brought my gun along and could see one of the big beasts
now," went on Ned. He looked anxiously around, but no game was in
sight. After a little farther tramp over the icy expanse they all
declared that they had seen enough of the dreary landscape, and
voted to return to the ship.

As they neared their craft Tom saw several large, shaggy black
objects standing in a line on the path the adventurers had come over
a little while before. The objects were between the gold-seekers and
the RED CLOUD.

"What in the world are those?" asked the young inventor.

"Look to me like black stones," spoke Ned.

"Stones?" cried Abe. "Look out, boys, those are musk oxen; and big
ones, too! There's a lot of 'em! Make for the ship! If they attack
us we're goners!"

The boys and Mr. Parker needed no second warning. Turning so as to
rush past the shaggy creatures, the four headed toward the ship.

But if our friends expected to reach it unmolested they were
disappointed. No sooner had they increased their pace than the oxen,
with snorts of rage, darted forward. The animals may have imagined
they were about to be attacked, and determined to make the first
move.

"Here they come!" yelled Ned.

"Sprint for it!" cried Tom.

"Oh, if I only had my gun!" groaned Abe.

It was hard work running over the ice and snow, hampered as they
were with their heavy fur garments. They soon realized this, and the
pace was telling on them. They were now near to the ship, but the
savage creatures still were between them and the craft.

"Try around the other way!" directed Tom, They changed their
direction, but the oxen also shifted their ground, and with loud
bellows of rage came on, shaking their shaggy heads and big horns,
while the hair, hanging down from their sides and flanks, dragged in
the snow.

"Right at 'em! Run and yell!" advised the young inventor. "Maybe we
can scare 'em!"

They followed his advice. Yelling like Indians the four rushed
straight for the animals. For a moment only the creatures halted.
Then, bellowing louder than ever they rushed straight at Tom and the
others.

The largest of the oxen, with a sudden swerve, made for Mr. Parker,
who was slightly in the lead off to one side. In an instant the
scientist was tossed high in the air, falling in a snow bank.

"Mr. Damon! Mr. Damon!" yelled Tom, frantically. "Get a gun and
shoot these beasts!"

The young inventor and his two companions had come to a halt. The
oxen also stopped momentarily. Suddenly Mr. Damon appeared on the
deck of the airship. He held two rifles. Laying one down he aimed
the other at the ox which was rushing at the prostrate Mr. Parker.
The eccentric man fired. He hit the beast on the flank, and, with a
bellow of rage it turned.

"Now's our time!" yelled Tom. "Head for the ship, I'll get my
electric gun!"

"We can't leave Mr. Parker!" yelled Abe.

But the scientist had arisen, and was running toward the RED CLOUD.
He did not seem to be much hurt. Mr. Damon fired again, hitting
another beast, but not mortally.

Once more the herd of shaggy creatures came on, but the adventurers
were now almost at the ship, on the deck of which stood Mr. Damon,
firing as fast as he could work the lever and pull the trigger.




CHAPTER XIX

THE CAVES OF ICE


"Keep on firing! Hold 'em back a few minutes and I'll soon turn my
electric rifle loose on 'em!" yelled Tom Swift as he sprinted
forward. "Keep on shooting, Mr. Damon!"

"Bless my powder-horn! I will!" cried the excited man. "I'll fire
all the cartridges there are in the rifle!"

Which, at the rate he was discharging the weapon, would not take a
long time. But it had the effect of momentarily checking the advance
of the creatures.

Not for long, however. Our friends had barely reached the airship,
with Mr. Parker stumbling and slipping on the ice and snow, ere the
musk oxen came on again, with loud bellows.

"They're going to charge the ship! They'll ram her!" yelled Ned
Newton.

"I think I can stop them!" cried Tom, who had leaped toward his
stateroom. He came out a moment later, carrying a peculiar-looking
gun, The adventurers had seen it before, but never in operation, as
Tom had only put some finishing touches on it since undertaking the
voyage to the caves of ice.

"What sort of a weapon is that?" cried Abe, as he helped Mr. Parker
on board.

"It's my new electric rifle," answered the young inventor. "I don't
know how it will work, as it isn't entirely finished, but I'm going
to try it."

Putting it to his shoulder he aimed at the leading musk ox, and
pulled a small lever. There was no report, no puff of smoke and no
fire, yet the big creature, which had been rushing at the ship,
suddenly stopped, swayed for a moment, and then fell over in the
snow, kicking in his death agony.

"One down!" yelled Tom. "My rifle works all right, even if it isn't
finished!"

He aimed at another ox, and that creature was stopped in its tracks.
Mr. Damon had exhausted his cartridges, and had ceased firing, but
Abe Abercrombie was ready with his rifle, and opened up on the
beasts. Tom killed another with his electric gun, and Abe shot two.
This stopped the advance, and only just in time, for the foremost
animals were already close to the ship, and had they rushed at the
frail hull they might have damaged it beyond repair.

"Here goes for the big one!" cried Tom, and, aiming at the largest
ox of the herd, the young inventor pulled the lever. The brute fell
over dead, and the rest, terror stricken, turned and fled.

"Hurrah! That's the stuff!" cried Ned Newton, capering about on
deck. He had hurried to his stateroom and secured his rifle, and,
before the musk oxen were out of sight he had killed one, which gave
him great delight.

"Mighty lucky we drove them away," declared Abe. "They are terrible
savage at times, an' I reckon we struck one of them times. But say,
Tom, what sort of a gun is that you got, anyhow?"

"Oh, it fires electric bullets," explained our hero. "But I haven't
time to tell you about it now. Let's get out and skin one of those
oxen. The fresh meat will come in good, for we've been living on
canned stuff since we left Seattle. We've got time enough before it
gets dark."

They hurried to where the shaggy creatures lay in the snow, and soon
there was enough fresh meat to last a long time, as it would keep
well in the intense cold. Tom put away his electric gun, briefly
explaining the system of it to his companions. The time was to come,
and that not very far off, when that same electric rifle was to save
his life in a remarkable manner, in the wilds of Africa where he
went to hunt elephants.

In the cozy cabin that night they sat and talked of the day's
adventures. The airship had been slightly lifted up by means of the
gas bag, and now rested on a level keel, so it was more comfortable
for the gold hunters.

"I did not complete my observations about the great snow slide,"
remarked Professor Parker, "I trust I will have time to go over the
ground again to-morrow."

"We leave early in the morning," objected Tom.

"Besides, I don't believe it would be safe to go over that ground
again," put in Mr. Damon.

"Bless my gunpowder! But when I saw those savage creatures rushing
at you, I thought it was all up with us. Are you hurt, Parker, my
dear fellow? I forgot to ask before."

"Not hurt in the least," answered the scientist. "My heavy and thick
fur garments saved me from the beasts' horns, and I fell in some
soft snow. I was quite startled for a moment. I thought it might be
the beginning of the snow movement."

"It was an ox movement," said Ned, in a low voice to Tom.

Morning saw the travelers again under way, with the Red Cloud now
floating high enough to avoid the lofty peaks. The weather was clear
but very cold, and Tom, who was in the pilot-house, could see a long
distance ahead, and note many towering crags, which, had the airship
been flying low enough, would have interfered with her progress.

"We'll have to keep the searchlight going all night, to avoid a
collision," he decided.

"Are we anywhere near the place?" asked Mr. Damon.

"We're in th' right region," declared the old miner. "I think we're
on th' right track. I recognize a few more landmarks."

"There wouldn't have been any trouble if I hadn't lost the map."
complained Tom, bitterly.

"Never mind about that," insisted Abe. "We'll find th' place anyhow.
But look ahead there; is that another hail storm headin' this way,
Tom?"

The young inventor glanced to where Abe pointed. There was a mist in
the air, and, for a time great apprehension was felt, but, in a few
minutes there was a violent flurry of snow and they all breathed
easier. For, though the flakes were so numerous as to completely
shut off the view, there was no danger to the airship from them. Tom
steered by the compass.

The storm lasted several hours, and when it was over the adventurers
found themselves several miles nearer their destination--at least
they hoped they were nearer it, for they were going it blind.

Abe declared they were now in the region of the gold valley. They
cruised about for two days, making vain observations by means of
powerful telescopes, but they saw no signs of any depression which
corresponded with the place whence Abe had seen the gold taken from.
At times they passed over Indian villages, and had glimpses of the
skin-clad inhabitants rushing out to point to the strange sight of
the airship overhead. Tom was beginning to reproach himself again
for his carelessness in losing the map, and it did begin to took as
if they were making a fruitless search.

Still they all kept up their good spirits, and Mr. Damon concocted
some new dishes from the meat of the musk oxen. It was about a week
after the fight with the savage creatures when, one day, as Ned was
on duty in the pilothouse, he happened to look down. What he saw
caused him to call to Tom.

"What's the matter?" demanded the young inventor, as he hurried
forward.

"Look down there," directed Ned. "It looks as if we were sailing
over a lot of immense beehives of the old-fashioned kind."

Tom looked. Below were countless, rounded hummocks of snow or ice.
Some were very large--as immense as a great shed in which a
dirigible balloon could be housed--while others were as small as the
ice huts in which the Eskimos live.

"That's rather strange," remarked Tom. "I wonder--"

But he did not complete his sentence, for Abe Abercrombie, who had
come to stand beside him, suddenly yelled out:

"The caves of ice! The caves of ice! Now I know where we are! We're
close to the valley of gold! There are the caves of ice, and just
beyond is th' place we're lookin' for! We've found it at last!"




CHAPTER XX

IN THE GOLD VALLEY


The excited cries of the old miner brought Mr. Damon and Mr. Parker
to the pilothouse on the run.

"Bless my refrigerator!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Are there more of
those savage, shaggy creatures down there?"

"No, but we are over th' caves of ice," explained Abe. "That means
we are near th' gold."

"You don't say so!" burst out the scientist. "The caves of ice! Now
I can begin my real observations! I have a theory that the caves are
on top of a strata of ice that is slowly moving down, and will
eventually bury the whole of the North American continent. Let me
once get down there, and I can prove what I say."

"I'd a good deal rather you wouldn't prove it, if it's going to be
anything like it was on Earthquake Island, or out among the diamond
makers." said Tom Swift. "But we will go down there, to see what
they are like. Perhaps there is a trail from among the ice caves to
the valley of gold."

"I don't think so," said Abe, shaking his head.

"I think th' gold valley lies over that high ridge," and he pointed
to one. "That's where me an' my partner was," he went on. "I
recognize th' place now."

"Well, we'll go down here, anyhow," decided Tom, and he pulled the
lever to let some gas out of the bag, and tilted the deflection
rudder to send the airship toward the odd caves.

And, curious enough did our friends find them when they had made a
landing and got out to walk about them. It was very cold, for on
every side was solid ice. They walked on ice, which was like a floor
beneath their feet, level save where the ice caves reared
themselves. As for the caverns, they, too, were hollowed out of the
solid ice. It was exactly as though there had once been a level
surface of some liquid. Then by some upheaval of nature, the surface
was blown into bubbles, some large and some small. Then the whole
thing had frozen solid, and the bubbles became hollow caves. In time
part of the sides fell in and made an opening, so that nearly all
the caves were capable of being entered.

This method of their formation was advanced as a theory by Mr.
Parker, and no one cared to dispute him. The gold-seekers walked
about, gazing on the ice caves with wonder showing on their faces.

It was almost like being in some fantastic scene from fairyland, the
big ice bubbles representing the houses, the roofs being rounded
like the igloos of the Eskimos. Some had no means of entrance, the
outer surface showing no break. Others had small openings, like a
little doorway, while of still others there remained but a small
part of the original cave, some force of nature having crumbled and
crushed it.

"Wonderful! Wonderful!" exclaimed Mr. Parker. "It bears out my
theory exactly! Now to see how fast the ice is moving."

"How are you going to tell?" asked Tom.

"By taking some mark on this field of ice, and observing a distant
peak. Then I will set up a stake, and by noting their relative
positions, I can tell just how fast the ice field is moving
southward." The scientist hurried into the ship to get a sharpened
stake he had prepared for this purpose.

"How fast do you think the ice is moving?" asked Ned.

"Oh, perhaps two or three feet a year." "Two or three feet a year?"
gasped Mr. Damon. "Why, Parker, my dear fellow, at that rate it will
be some time before the ice gets to New York."

"Oh, yes. I hardly expect it will reach there within two thousand
years, but my theory will be proved, just the same!"

"Humph!" exclaimed Abe Abercrombie, "I ain't goin' to worry any
more, if it's goin' t' take all that while. I reckoned, to hear him
talk, that it was goin' t' happen next summer."

"So did I," agreed Tom, but their remarks were lost on Mr. Parker
who was busy making observations. The young inventor and the others
walked about among the ice caves.

"Some of these caverns would be big enough to house the RED CLOUD in
case of another hail storm," observed Tom. "That one over there
would hold two craft the size of mine," and, in fact, probably three
could have gotten in if the opening had been somewhat enlarged, for
the ice cave to which our hero pointed was an immense one.

As the adventurers were walking about they were startled by a
terrific crashing sound. They started in alarm, for, off to their
left, the top of one of the ice caverns had crashed inward, the
blocks of frozen water crushing and grinding against one another.

"It's a good thing we weren't in there," remarked Tom, and he could
not repress a shudder, "There wouldn't have been much left of the
RED CLOUD if she had been inside."

It was a desolate place, in spite of the wild beauty of it, and
beautiful it was when the sun shone on the ice caves, making them
sparkle as if they were studded with diamonds. But it was cold and
cheerless, and there were no signs that human beings had ever been
there. Mr. Parker had completed the setting of his stake, and picked
out his landmarks, and was gravely making his "observations," and
jotting down some figures in a notebook.

"How fast is it moving, Parker?" called Mr. Damon.

"I can't tell yet," was the response. "It will require observations
extending over several days before I will know the rate."

"Then we might as well go on," suggested Tom. "There is nothing to
be gained from staying here, and I would like to get to the gold
valley. Abe says we are near it."

"Right over that ridge, I take it to be," replied the miner. "An' we
can't get there any too soon for me. Those Fogers may git their ship
fixed up, an' arrive before we do if we wait much longer."

"Not much danger, I guess," declared Ned.

"Well, we'll go up in the air, and see what we can find," decided
Tom, as he turned back toward the ship.

They found the "ridge" as Abe designated it, to be a great plateau,
over a hundred miles in extent, and they were the better part of
that day crossing it, for they went slowly, so as not to miss the
valley which the miner was positive was close at hand. Mr. Parker
disliked leaving the ice caves, but Abe said there were more in the
valley where they were going, and the scientist could renew his
observations.

It was getting dusk when Tom, who was peering through a powerful
glass, called out:

"Well, we're at the end of the plateau, and it seems to dip down
into a valley just beyond here."

"Then that's the place!" cried Abe, excitedly. "Go slow, Tom."

Our hero needed no such caution. Carefully he sent the airship
forward. A few minutes later they were passing over a large Eskimo
village, the fur-clad inhabitants of which rushed about wildly
excited at the sight of the airship.

"There they are! Them's th' beggars!" cried the old miner. "Them's
th' fellows who drove me an' my partner away. But there's th' valley
of gold! I know it now! Now t' fill our pockets with nuggets!"

"Are you sure this is the place?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Sartin sure of it!" declared Abe. "Put her down, Tom! Put her
down!"

"All right," agreed the young inventor, as he shifted the deflection
rudder. The airship began her descent into the valley. The edge of
the plateau, leading down into the great depression was now black
with the Eskimos and Indians, who were capering about, gesticulating
wildly.

"It's quite a surprise party to 'em," observed Ned Newton.

"Yes, I hope they don't spring one on us," added Tom.

Down and down went the RED CLOUD lower and lower into the valley.

"There are ice caves there!" cried Mr. Parker, pointing to the
curiously rounded and hollow hummocks. "Lots of them!"

"And larger than the others!" added Mr. Damon.

The airship was now moving slowly, for Tom wanted to pick out a good
landing place. He saw a smooth stretch of the ice just ahead of him,
in front of an immense ice cave.

"I'll make for that," he told Ned.

A few minutes later the craft had come to rest. Tom shut off the
power and hurried from the pilothouse, donning his fur coat as he
rushed out. A blast of frigid air met him as he opened the outer
door of the cabin. Back on the ridge of the plateau he could see the
fringe of Indians.

"Well, we're here in the valley," he said, as his friends gathered
about him on the icy ground.

"An' now for th' gold!" cried Abe, "for it's here that th' nuggets
are--enough for all of us! Come on an' have a hunt for 'em!"




CHAPTER XXI

THE FOGERS ARRIVE


In spite of the fact that he tried to remain calm, Tom Swift felt a
wild exultation as he thought of what lay before him and his
friends. To be in a place where gold could be picked up! where they
might all become fabulously wealthy! where the ground might be seen
covered with the precious yellow metal! this was enough to set the
nerves of any one a-tingle!

Tom could hardly realize it at first. After many hardships, no
little danger, and after an attempt on the part of their enemies to
defeat them, they had at last reached their goal. Now, as Abe had
said, they could hunt for the gold.

But if they expected to see the precious yellow nuggets lying about
ready to be picked up like so many kernels of corn, they were
disappointed. A quick look all about showed them only a vast extent
of ice and snow, broken here and there by the big caves of ice.
There were not so many of the latter as at the first place they
stopped, but the caverns were larger.

"Gold--I don't see any gold," remarked Ned Newton, with a
disappointed air. "Where is it?"

"Bless my pocketbook, yes! Where is it?" demanded Mr. Damon.

"Oh, we've got to dig for it," explained Abe. "It's only when
there's been a slight thaw that some of th' pebble nuggets kin be
seen. They're under th' ice, an' we've got t' dig for 'em."

"Does it ever thaw up here?" asked Mr. Parker. "The ice of the caves
seems thick enough to last forever."

"It does thaw an' melt some," went on the miner. "But some of th'
caves last all through what they call 'summer' up here, though it's
more like winter. We're above th' Arctic circle now, friends."

"Maybe we can keep on to the Pole," suggested Ned.

"Not this trip," spoke Tom, grimly. "We'll try for the gold, first."

"Yes, an' I'm goin' t' begin diggin' right away!" exclaimed Abe, as
he turned back into the airship, and came out again with a pick and
shovel, a supply of which implements had been brought along. The
others followed his example, and soon the ice chips were flying
about in a shower, while the sun shining on them gave the appearance
of a rainbow.

"Look at those Indians watching us," remarked Ned to Tom, as he
paused in his chipping of the frozen surface. The young inventor
glanced up toward the distant plateau where a fringe of dark figures
stood. The natives were evidently intently watching the gold-seekers.

"Do you think there's any danger from them. Abe?" asked Tom.

"Not much," was the reply. "They made trouble for me an' my partner,
but I guess th' airship has scared 'em sufficient, so they won't
come snoopin' down here," and Abe fell to at his digging again.

Mr. Damon was also vigorously wielding a pick, but Mr. Parker like
the true scientist he was, had renewed his observations. Evidently
the gold had no attractions for him, or, if it did, he preferred to
wait until he had finished his calculations.

Vigorously the adventurers wielded their implements, making the ice
fly, but for an hour or more no gold was discovered. Mr. Damon,
after picking lightly at a certain place, would get discouraged, and
move on to another. So did Ned, and Tom, after going down quite a
way, left off work, and walked over to one of the big ice caves.

"What's up?" asked Ned, resting from his labors.

"I was thinking whether it would be safe to put the RED CLOUD in
this ice cave for a shelter," replied Tom. "There may come up a hail
storm at any time, and damage it. The caves would be just the place
for it, only I'm afraid the roof might collapse."

"It looks strong," said Ned. "Let's ask Mr. Parker his opinion."

"Good idea," agreed Tom.

The scientist was soon taking measurements of the thickness of the
cave roof, noting its formation, and looking at the frozen floor.

"I see no reason why this cave should collapse," he finally
announced. "The only danger is the movement of the whole valley of
ice, and that is too gradual to cause any immediate harm. Yes, I
think the airship could be housed in the ice cave."

"Then I'll run her in, and she'll be safer," decided Tom. "I guess
we three can do it, Ned, and leave Mr. Damon and Abe to keep on
digging for gold." The airship was so buoyant that it could easily
be moved about on the bicycle wheels on which it rested, and soon,
after the lower edge of the opening into the ice cave had been
smoothed down, the RED CLOUD was placed in the novel shelter.

"Now to continue the search for the yellow nuggets!" cried Ned, and
Tom went with him, even Mr. Parker condescending to take a pick,
now. Abe was the only one who dug steadily in one place. The others
tried spot after spot.

"You've got t' stick t' one lead until you find somethin', or until
it peters out," explained the miner. "You must git down to th' dirt
before you'll find any gold, though you may strike a few grains that
have worked up into th' ice."

After this advice they all kept to one hole until they had worked
down through the ice to the dirt surface below. But even then, Abe,
who was the first to achieve this, found no gold, and the old miner
went to another location.

All the rest of that day they dug, but with no result. Not even a
few grains of yellow dust rewarded their efforts.

"Are you sure this is the right place?" asked Mr. Damon, somewhat
fretfully, of Abe, as they ate supper that night in the airship,
sheltered as it was in the ice cave.

"I'm positive of it," was the reply. "There's gold here, but it will
take some prospectin' t' find it. Maybe th' deposits have been
shifted by th' ice movement, as Mr. Parker says. But it's here, an'
we'll git it. We'll try ag'in t'-morrow."

They did try, but with small success. Laboring all day in the cold
the only result was a few little yellow pebbles that Tom found
imbedded in the ice. But they were gold, and the finding of them
gave the seekers hope as they wearily began their task the following
day. The weather seemed even colder, and there was the indication of
a big storm.

They were scattered in different places on the ice, not far away
from the big cave, each one picking away vigorously. Suddenly Abe,
who had laboriously worked his way down to the dirt, gave an
exultant yell.

"I've struck it! Struck it rich!" he shouted, leaping about as he
threw down his pick, "Look here, everybody!" He stooped down over
the hole. They all ran to his side, and saw him lifting from a
little pocket in the dirt, several large, yellow pebbles.

"Gold! Gold!" cried Abe. "We've struck it at last!"

For a moment no one spoke, though there was a wild beating of their
hearts. Then, off toward the farther end of the valley there sounded
a curious noise. It was a shouting and yelling, mingled with the
snapping of whips and the howls and barkings of dogs.

"Bless my handkerchief!" cried Mr. Damon. "What's that?"

They all saw a moment later. Approaching over the frozen snow were
several Eskimo sledges, drawn by dog teams, and the native drivers
were shouting and cracking their whips of walrus hide.

"The natives are coming to attack us!" cried Ned.

Tom said nothing. He was steadily observing the approaching sleds.
They came on rapidly. Abe was holding the golden nuggets in his
gloved hands.

"Get the guns! Where's your electric rifle, Tom?" cried Mr. Damon.

"I don't believe we'll need the guns--just yet," answered the young
inventor, slowly.

"Bless my cartridge-belt! Why not?" demanded the eccentric man.

"Because those are the Fogers," replied Tom. "They have followed
us--Andy and his father! Andy Foger here!" gasped Ned.

Tom nodded grimly. A few minutes later the sleds had come to a halt
not far from our friends, and Andy, followed by his father, leaped
off his conveyance. The two were clad in heavy fur garments.

"Ha, Tom Swift! You didn't get here much ahead of us!" exulted the
bully. "I told you I'd get even with you! Come on, now, dad, we'll
get right to work digging for gold!"

Tom and his companions did not know what to say.




CHAPTER XXII

JUMPING THE CLAIM


There was a sneering look on Andy's face, and Mr. Foger, too, seemed
delighted at having reached the valley of gold almost as soon as had
our friends. Tom and the others looked at the means by which the
bully had arrived. There were four sleds, each one drawn by seven
dogs, and in charge of a dark-skinned native. On the two foremost
sleds Andy and his father had ridden, while the other two evidently
contained their supplies.

For a moment Andy surveyed Tom's party and then, turning to one of
the native drivers, he said:

"We'll camp here. You fellows get to work and make an ice house, and
some of you cook a meal--I'm hungry."

"No need build ice house," replied the native, who spoke English
brokenly.

"Why not?" demanded Andy.

"Live in ice cave-plenty much ob'em--plenty much room," went on the
Eskimo, indicating several of the large caverns.

"Ha! That's a good idea," agreed Mr. Foger, "Andy, my son, we have
houses already made for us, and very comfortable they seem, too.
We'll take up our quarters in one, and then hunt for the gold."

Mr. Foger seemed to ignore Tom and his friends. Abe Abercrombie
strode forward.

"Look here, you Fogers!" he exclaimed without ceremony, "was you
calculatin' on stakin' any claims here?"

"If you mean are we going to dig for gold, we certainly are,"
replied Andy insolently, "and you can't stop us."

"I don't know about that," went on Abe, grimly. "I ain't goin' t'
say nothin' now, about th' way you stole th' map from me, an' made a
copy, but I am goin t' say this, an' that is it won't be healthy fer
any of you t' git in my way, or t' try t' dig on our claims!"

"We'll dig where we please!" cried Andy. "You don't own this
valley!"

"We own as much of it as we care to stake out, by right of prior
discovery!" declared Tom, firmly.

"And I say we'll dig where we please!" insisted Andy. "Hand me a
pick," he went on to another of the natives.

"Wait jest a minute," spoke Abe calmly, as he put his little store
of nuggets in the pocket of his fur coat, and drew out a big
revolver. "It ain't healthy t' talk that way, Andy Foger, an' th'
sooner you find that out th' better. You ain't in Shopton now, an'
th' only law here is what we make for ourselves. Tom, maybe you'd
better get out th' rifles, an' your electric gun, after all. It
seems like we might have trouble," and Abe cooly looked to see if
his weapon was loaded.

"Oh, of course we didn't mean to usurp any of your rights, my dear
friend!" exclaimed Mr. Foger quickly, and he seemed nervous at the
sight of the big revolver, while Andy hastily moved until he was
behind the biggest of the sledge drivers. "We don't want to violate
any of your rights," went on Mr. Foger. "But this valley is large,
and do I understand that you claim all of it?"

"We could if we wanted to," declared Abe stoutly; "but we'll be
content with three-quarter of it, seein' we was here fust. If you
folks want t' dig fer gold, go over there," and he pointed to a spot
some distance away.

"We'll dig where we please!" cried Andy.

"Oh, will you?" and there was an angry light in Abe's eyes. "I
guess, Tom, you'd better git--"

"No! No! My son is wrong--he is too hasty," interposed Mr. Foger.
"We will go away--certainly we will. The valley is large enough for
both of us--just as you say. Come, Andy!"

The bully seemed about to refuse, but a look at Abe's angry face and
a sight of Mr. Damon coming from the cave where the airship was,
with a rifle, for the eccentric man had hastened to get his weapon--this
sight calmed Andy down. Without further words he and his father
got back on their sleds, and were soon being driven off to where a
large ice cave loomed up, about a mile away.

"Good riddance," muttered the miner, "now we kin go on diggin'
without bein' bothered by that little scamp."

"I don't know about that," spoke Tom, shaking his head dubiously.
"There's always trouble when Andy Foger's within a mile. I'm afraid
we haven't seen the last of him."

"He'd better not come around here ag'in," declared Abe. "Queer, how
he should turn up, jest when I made a big strike."

"They must have come on all the way from where their airship was
wrecked, by means of dog sleds," observed Ned, and the others agreed
with him. Later they learned that this was so; that after the
accident to the ANTHONY, the crew had refused to proceed farther
north, and had gone back. But Mr. Foger had hired the natives with
the dog teams, and, by means of the copy of the map and with what
knowledge his Eskimos had, had reached the valley of gold.

"We have certainly struck it rich," went on Abe, as he went back to
where he had dug the hole. "Now we'd better all begin prospectin'
here, for it looks like a big deposit. We'll stake out a large
enough claim to take it all in. I guess Mr. Parker can do that,
seein' as how he knows about such things."

The scientist agreed to do this part of the work, it being
understood that all the gold discovered would be shared equally
after the expenses of the trip had been paid.

Feverishly Abe and the others began to dig. They did not come upon
such a rich deposit as the miner had found, but there were enough
nuggets picked up to prove that the expedition would be very
successful.

No more attention was paid to the Fogers, but through the telescope
Tom could see that the bully and his father had made a camp in one
of the ice caves, and that both were eagerly digging in the frozen
surface of the valley.

Before night several thousand dollars' worth of gold had been taken
out by our friends. It was stored in the airship, and then, after
supper the craft's searchlight was taken off, and placed in such a
position in front of the cave of ice so that the beams would
illuminate the claim staked out by Tom and the others.

"We'll stand watch an' watch," suggested Abe, "but I don't think
them Fogers will come around here ag'in."

They did not, and the night passed peacefully. The next day our
friends were again at work digging for gold. So were the Fogers, as
could be observed through the glass, but it was impossible to see
whether they got any nuggets.

The gold seemed to be in "pockets," and that day the ones in the
vicinity of the strike first made by Abe were cleaned out.

"We'll have to locate some new 'pockets,'" said the miner, and the
adventurers scattered over the frozen plain to look for other
deposits of the precious metal.

Tom and Ned were digging together not far from one another. Suddenly
Ned let out a joyful cry.

"Strike anything?" asked Tom.

"Something rich," answered the bank clerk. He lifted from a hole in
the ground a handful of the golden pebbles.

"It's as good as Abe's was!" exclaimed Tom. "We must stake it out at
once, or the Fogers may jump it. Come on, we'll go back and tell
Abe, and get Mr. Parker and Mr. Damon over here."

The three men were some distance away, and there was no sign of the
Fogers. Tom and Ned hurried back to where their friends were,
leaving their picks and shovels on the frozen ground.

The good news was soon told, and, with some stakes hastily made from
some extra wood carried on the airship, the little party hastened
back to where Tom and Ned had made their strike.

As they emerged from behind a big hummock of ice they saw, standing
over the holes which the lads had dug, Andy Foger and his father!
Each one had a rifle, and there was a smile of triumph on Andy's
face!

"What are you doing here?" cried Tom, the hot blood mounting to his
cheeks.

"We've just staked out a claim here," answered the bully.

"And you deserted it," put in Mr. Foger smoothly. "I think your
mining friend will tell you that we have a right to take up an
abandoned claim."

"But we didn't abandon it!" declared Tom. "We only went away to get
the stakes."

"The claim was abandoned, and we have 'jumped' it," went on Mr.
Foger, and he cocked his rifle. "I need hardly tell you that
possession is nine points of the law, and that we intend to remain.
Andy, is your gun loaded?"

"Yes, pa."

"I--I guess they've got us--fer th' time bein'," murmured Abe, as he
motioned to Tom and the others to come away. "Besides they've got
guns, an' we haven't--but wait," added the miner, mysteriously. "I
haven't played all my tricks yet."




CHAPTER XXIII

ATTACKED BY NATIVES


To state that Tom and his friends were angry at the trick the Fogers
had played on them would be putting it mildly. There was righteous
indignation in their hearts, and, as for the young inventor he felt
that much blame was attached to him for his neglect in not remaining
on guard at the place of the lucky strike while Ned went to call the
others.

"I guess Andy must have been spying on us," spoke Ned, "or he would
never have known when to rush up just as he did; as soon as we
left."

"Probably," admitted Tom, bitterly.

"But, bless my penholder!" cried Mr. Damon. "Can't we do something,
Abe? Won't the law--?"

"There ain't any law out here, except what you make yourself," said
the miner. "I guess they've got us for th' time bein'."

"What do you mean by that?" asked Tom, detecting a gleam of hope in
Abe's tone.

"Well, I mean that I think we kin git ahead of 'em. Come on back to
th' ship, an' we'll talk it over."

They walked away, leaving Andy and his father in possession of the
rich deposits of gold, and that it was much richer even then than
the hole Abe had first discovered was very evident. The two Fogers
were soon at work, digging out the yellow metal with the pick and
shovels Tom and Ned had so thoughtlessly dropped.

"What little law there is out here they've got on their side," went
on Abe, "an' they've got possession, too, which is more. Of course
we could go at 'em in a pitched battle, but I take it you don't want
any bloodshed?" and he looked at Tom.

"Of course not," replied the lad quickly, "but I'd like to meet Andy
alone, with nothing but my fists for a little while," and Tom's eyes
snapped.

"So would I," added Ned.

"Perhaps we can find another pocket of gold better than  that  one,"
suggested Mr. Damon.

"We might," admitted Abe, "but that one was ours an' we're entitled
to it. This valley is rich in gold deposits, but you can't allers
put your hand on 'em. We may have t' hunt around for a week until we
strike another. An', meanwhile, them Fogers will be takin' our gold!
It's not to be borne! I'll find some way of drivin' 'em out. An'
we've got t' do it soon, too."

"You mean if we don't that they'll get all the gold?" asked Mr.
Damon.

"No, I mean that soon it will be th' long night up here, an' we
can't work. We'll have t' go back, an' I don't want t' go back until
I've made my pile."

"Neither do any of us, I guess," spoke Tom, "but there doesn't seem
to be any help for it."

They discussed several plans on reaching the ship, but none seemed
feasible without resorting to force, and this they did not want to
do, as they feared there might be bloodshed. When night closed in
they could see the gleam of a campfire, kindled by the Foger party,
at the gold-pocket, from bits of the scrubby trees that grew in that
frigid clime.

"They're going to stay on guard," announced Tom. "We can't get it
away from them to-night."

Though Abe had spoken of some plan to regain the advantage the
Fogers had of them, the old miner was not quite ready to propose it.
All the next day he seemed very thoughtful, while going about with
the others, seeking new deposits of gold. Luck did not seem to be
with them. They found two or three places where there were traces of
the yellow pebbles, but in no very great quantity.

Meanwhile the Fogers were busy at the pocket Ned had located. They
seemed to be taking out much of the precious metal.

"And it all ought to be ours," declared Tom, bitterly.

"Yes, and it shall be, too!" suddenly exclaimed. Abe. "I think I
have a plan that will beat 'em."

"What is it?" asked Tom.

"Let's get back to the ship, and I'll tell you," said Abe. "We can't
tell when one of their natives might be sneakin' in among these ice
caves, an' they understand some English. They might give my scheme
away."

In brief Abe's plan, as he unfolded it in the cabin of the RED CLOUD
was this:

They would divide into two parties, one consisting of Ned and Tom,
and the other of the three men. The latter, by a circuitous route,
would go to the ice caves where the Fogers had established their
camp. It was there that the Indians remained during the day, while
Andy and his father labored at the gold pocket, for, after the first
day when they had had the natives aid them, father and son had
worked alone at the hole, probably fearing to trust the Indians. At
night, though either Andy or his father remained on guard, with one
or two of the dusky-skinned dog drivers.

"But we'll work this trick before night," said Abe. "We three men
will get around to where the natives are in the ice cave. We'll
pretend to attack them, and raise a great row, firing our guns in
the air, and all that sort of thing, an' yellin' t' beat th' band.
Th' natives will yell, too, you can depend on that."

"Th' Fogers will imagine we are tryin' t' git away with their sleds
an' supplies, an' maybe their gold, if they've got it stored in th'
ice cave. Naturally Andy or his father will run here, an' that will
leave only one on guard at th' mine. Then Tom an' Ned can sneak up.
Th' two of 'em will be a match for even th' old Foger, if he happens
t' stay, an' while Tom or Ned comes up in front, t' hold his
attention, th' other can come up in back, an' grab his arms, if he
tries t' shoot. Likely Andy will remain at th' gold hole, an' you
two lads kin handle him, can't you?"

"Well, I guess!" exclaimed Tom and Ned together.

The plan worked like a charm. Abe, Mr. Damon and Mr. Parker raised a
great din at the ice cave where the Foger natives were. The sound
carried to the hole where Andy and his father were digging out the
gold. Mr. Foger at once ran toward the cave, while Andy, catching up
his gun, remained on the alert.

Then came the chance of Tom and Ned. The latter coming from his
hiding-place, advanced boldly toward the bully, while Tom, making a
detour, worked his way up behind.

"Here! You keep away!" cried Andy, catching sight of Ned. "I see
what the game is, now! It's a trick!"

"You're a nice one to talk about tricks!" declared Ned, advancing
slowly.

"Keep away if you don't want to get hurt!" yelled Andy.

"Oh, you wouldn't hurt me; would you?" mocked Ned, who wanted to
give Tom time to sneak up behind the bully.

"Yes, I would! Keep back!" Andy was nervously fingering his weapon.
The next instant his gun flew from his grasp, and he went over
backward in Tom's strong grip; for the young inventor, in his
sealskin shoes had worked up in the rear without a sound. The next
moment Andy broke away and was running for his life, leaving Tom and
Ned in possession of the gold hole, and that without a shot being
fired. A little later the three men, who had hurried away from the
cave as Mr. Foger rushed up to see what caused the racket, joined
Tom and Ned, and formal possession was taken of their lucky strike.

"We'll guard it well, now," decided Tom, and later that day they
moved some supplies near the hole, and for a shelter built an igloo,
Eskimo fashion, in which work Abe had had some experience. Then they
moved the airship to another ice cave, nearer their "mine" as they
called it, and prepared to stand guard.

But there seemed to be no need, for the following day there was no
trace of the Fogers. They and their natives had disappeared.

"I guess we were too much for them," spoke Tom. But the sequel was
soon to prove differently.

It was three days after our friends had regained their mine, during
which time they had dug out considerable gold, that toward evening,
as Tom was taking the last of the output of yellow pebbles into the
cave where the airship was, he looked across the valley.

"Looks like something coming this way," observed the young inventor.
"Natives, I guess."

"It is," agreed Ned, "quite a large party, too!"

"Better tell Abe and the others," went on Tom. "I don't like the
looks of this. Maybe the sudden disappearance of the Fogers has
something to do with it."

Abe, Mr. Damon and Mr. Parker hurried from the ice cave. They had
caught up their guns as they ran out.

"They're still coming on," called Tom, "and are headed this way."

"They're Indians, all right!" exclaimed Abe. "Hark! What's that?"

It was the sound of shouting and singing.

Through the gathering dusk the party advanced. Our friends closely
scanned them. There was something familiar about the two leading
figures, and it could now be seen that in the rear were a number of
dog sleds.

"There's Andy Foger and his father!" cried Ned. "They've gone and
got a lot of Eskimos to help them drive us away."

"That's right!" admitted Tom. "I guess we're in for it now!"

With a rush the natives, led by the Fogers, came on. They were
yelling now. An instant later they began firing their guns.

"It's a fierce attack!" cried Tom. "Into the ice cave for shelter!
We can cover the gold mine from there. I'll get my electric gun!"




CHAPTER XXIV

THE WRECK OF THE AIRSHIP


Almost before our friends could retreat into the cave which now
sheltered the RED CLOUD, the attacking natives opened fire.
Fortunately they only had old-fashioned, muzzle-loading muskets,
and, as their aim was none of the best, there was comparatively
little danger. The bullets, however, did sing through the
fast-gathering darkness with a vicious sound, and struck the heavy
sides and sloping front of the ice cave with a disconcerting "ping!"

"I don't hear Andy or his father firing!" called Tom, as he and the
others returned the fire of the savage Indians. "I could tell their
guns by the sharper reports. The Fogers carry repeating rifles, and
they're fine ones, if they're anything like the one we took from
Andy, Ned."

"That's right," agreed Tom's chum, "I don't believe Andy or his
father dare fire. They're afraid to, and they're putting the poor
ignorant natives up to it. Probably they hired them to try to drive
us away."

This, as they afterward learned, was exactly the case.

The battle, if such it could be called, was kept up. There was about
a hundred natives, all of whom had guns, and, though they were slow
to load, there were enough weapons to keep up a constant fusilade.
On their part, Tom and the others fired at first over the heads of
the natives, for they did not want to kill any of the deluded men.
Later, though, when they saw the rush keeping up, they fired at
their legs, and disabled several of the Eskimos, the electric gun
proving very effective.

It was now quite dark, and the firing slackened. From their position
in the cave, Tom and the others could command the hole where the
gold was, and, as they saw several natives sneaking up to it the
young inventor and Ned, both of whom were good shots, aimed to have
the bullets strike the ice close to where the Indians were.

This sort of shooting was enough, and the natives scurried away.
Then Tom hit on the plan of playing the searchlight on the spot, and
this effectually prevented an unseen attack. It seemed to discourage
the enemy, too for they did not venture into that powerful glow of
light.

"They won't do anything more until morning," declared Abe. "Then
we'll have it hot an' heavy, though, I'm afeered. Well, we'll have
t' make th' best of it!"

They took turns standing guard that night, but no attack was made.
The fact of the Fogers coming back with the band of Indians told
Tom, more plainly than words, how desperately his enemies would do
battle with them. Anxiously they waited for the morning.

Several times in the night Mr. Parker was seen roaming about
uneasily, though it was not his turn to be on guard. Finally Tom
asked him what was the matter, and if he could not sleep.

"It isn't that," answered the scientist, "but I am worried about the
ice. I can detect a slight but peculiar movement by means of some of
my scientific instruments. I am alarmed about it. I fear something
is going to happen."

But Tom was too worried about the outcome of the fight he knew would
be renewed on the next day, to think much about the ice movement. He
thought it would only be some scientific phenomena that would amount
to little.

With the first streak of the late dawn, the gold-seekers were up,
and partook of a hot breakfast, with strong coffee which Mr. Damon
brewed. Tom took an observation from the mouth of the cave. The
searchlight was still dimly glowing, and it did not disclose
anything. Tom turned it off. He thought he saw a movement among the
ranks of the enemy, who had camped just beyond the gold hole.

"I guess they're coming!" cried the lad. "Get ready for them!"

The adventurers caught up their guns, and hurried to the entrance of
the cave. Mr. Parker lingered behind, and was observed to be
narrowly scanning the walls of the cavern.

"Come on, Parker, my dear man!" begged Mr. Damon. "We are in grave
danger, and we need your help. Bless my life insurance policy! but I
never was in such a state as this."

"We may soon be in a worse one," was the answer of the gloomy
scientist.

"What do you mean?" asked Mr. Damon, but he hurried on without
waiting for a reply.

Suddenly, from without the cave came a series of fierce yells. It
was the battle-cry of the Indians. At the same moment there sounded
a fusillade of guns.

"The battle is beginning!" cried Tom Swift, grimly. He held his
electric gun, though he had not used it very much in the previous
attack, preferring to save it for a time of more need.

As the defenders of the cave reached the entrance they saw the body
of natives rushing forward. They were almost at the gold hole, with
Andy Foger and his father discreetly behind the first row of
Eskimos, when, with a suddenness that was startling, there sounded
throughout the whole valley a weird sound!

It was like the wailing of some giant--the sighing of some mighty
wind. At the same time the air suddenly became dark, and then there
came a violent snow squall, shutting out instantly the sight of the
advancing natives. Tom and the others could not see five feet beyond
the cave.

"This will delay the attack," murmured Ned, "They can't see to come
at us."

Mr. Parker came running up from the interior of the cave. On his
face there was a look of alarm.

"We must leave here at once!" he cried.

"Leave here?" repeated Tom. "Why must we? The enemy are out there!
We'd run right into them!"

"It must be done!" insisted the scientist. "We must leave the cave
at once!"

"What for?" cried Mr. Damon.

"Because the movement of the ice that I predicted, has begun. It is
much more rapid than I supposed it would be. In a short time this
cave and all the others will be crushed flat!"

"Crushed flat!" gasped Tom.

"Yes, the caves of ice are being destroyed! Hark! You can hear them
snapping!"

They all listened. Above the roar of the storm could be made out the
noise of crushing, grinding ice-sounds like cannon being fired, as
the great masses of frozen crystal snapped like frail planks.

"The ice caves are being destroyed by an upheaval of nature!" went
on Mr. Parker. "This one will soon go! The walls are bulging now! We
must get out!"

"But the natives! They will kill us!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my
soul! what a trying position to be in."

"I guess the natives are as bad off as we are," suggested Ned.
"They're not firing, and I can hear cries of alarm, I think they're
running away."

There was a lull in the snow flurry, and the white curtain seemed to
lift for a moment. The gold-seekers had a glimpse of the natives in
full retreat, with the Fogers--father and son--racing panic-stricken
after them. Tom could also see a big cave, just beyond the gold
hole, collapse and crumble to pieces like a house of cards.

"We have no time to lose!" Mr. Parker warned them. "The roof of this
cave is slowly coming down. The sides are collapsing! We must get
out!"

"Then wheel out the airship!" cried Tom. "We must save that! We
needn't fear the natives, now!"

The young inventor hurried to the RED CLOUD calling to Ned and the
others. They hastened to his side. It was an easy matter to move the
airship along on the wheels. It neared the opening of the cave. The
rumbling, roaring, grinding sound of the ice increased.

"Why--why!" cried Tom in surprise and alarm, as the craft neared the
mouth of the ice cavern, "we can't get it out--the opening is too
small! Yet it came in easily enough!"

"The cave is collapsing--growing smaller every moment!" cried Mr.
Parker. "We have only time to save our lives! Run out!"

"And leave the airship? Never!" yelled Tom.

"You must! You can't save that and your life!"

"Get axes and make the opening bigger!" suggested Ned, who, like his
chum, could not bear to think of the destruction of the beautiful
craft.

"No time! No time!" shouted Mr. Parker, frantically, "We must get
out! Save what you can from the ship--the gold--some supplies--the
guns--some food--save what you can!"

Then ensued a wild effort to get from the doomed craft what they
could--what they would need if they were to save their lives in that
cold and desolate country. Food, some blankets--their guns--as much
of the gold as they could hastily gather together--their weapons and
some ammunition--all this was carried from the cabin outside the
cave. The entrance was rapidly growing smaller. The roof was already
pressing down on the gas-bag.

Tom gave one last look at his fine craft. There were tears in his
eyes. He started into the cabin for something he had forgotten. Mr.
Parker grabbed him by the arm.

"Don't go in!" he cried hoarsely. "The cave will collapse in another
instant!" He rushed with Tom out of the cavern, and not a moment too
soon. The others were already outside.

Then with a rush and a roar, with a sound like a great explosion,
with a rending, grinding and booming as the great pieces of ice
collapsed one against the other, the big ice cave settled in, as
does some great building when the walls are weakened!

Down crashed the roof of the ice cave! Down upon the RED CLOUD,
burying out of sight, forever, under thousands of tons of ice and
snow, the craft which was the pride of Tom Swift's heart! It was the
end of the airship!

Tom felt a moisture of tears in his eyes as he stood there in the
midst of the snowstorm.




CHAPTER XXV

THE RESCUE--CONCLUSION


For a few moments after the collapse of the cave, and the
destruction of the airship, on which they depended to take them from
that desolate land, no one spoke. The calamity had been too
terrible--they could hardly understand it.

The snow had ceased, and, over the frozen plain, in full retreat,
could be seen the band of attacking Indians. They had fled in terror
at the manifestation of Nature. And Nature, as if satisfied at the
mischief she had wrought, called a halt to the movement of the ice.
The roaring, grinding sounds ceased, and there were no more
collapses of caves in that neighborhood.

"Well, we are up against it," spoke Tom, softly. "Poor old RED
CLOUD! There'll never be another airship like you!"

"We are lucky to have escaped with our lives," said Mr. Parker.
"Another moment and it would have been too late. I was expecting
something like this--I predicted it."

But his honor was an empty one--no one cared to dispute it with him.

"Bless my refrigerator! What's to be done!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.

"Start from here as soon as possible," decided Abe.

"Why, do you think the natives will come back?" asked Ned.

"No, but we have only a small supply of food, my lad, an' it's hard
to git up here. We must hit th' trail fer civilization as soon as we
kin!"

"Go back--how; without the airship?" asked Tom, blankly.

"Walk!" exclaimed the miner, grimly. "It's th' only way!"

They realized that. There was no hope of digging through that mass
of fantastically piled ice to reach the airship, and, even if they
could have done so, it would have been crushed beyond all hope of
repair. Nor could they dig down for more food, though what they had
hastily saved was little enough.

"Well, if we've got to go, we'd better start," suggested Tom, sadly.
"Poor old RED CLOUD!"

"Maybe we can get a little more gold," suggested Ned.

They walked over to the hole whence they had taken the yellow
nuggets. The "pocket" was not to be seen. It was buried out of sight
under tons of ice.

"We'll get no more gold here," decided Abe, "if we get safely out of
th' valley, and t' the nearest white settlement, we'll be lucky."

"Bless my soul! Is it as bad as that!" cried Mr. Damon.

Abe nodded without speaking. There was nothing else to do. Sadly and
silently they made up into packs the things they had saved, and
started southward, guided by a small compass the miner had with him.

It was a melancholy party. Fortunately the weather had turned a
little warmer or they might have been frozen to death. They tramped
all that day, shaping their course to take them out of the valley on
a side well away from where the hostile natives lived. At night they
made rude shelters of snow and blocks of ice and ate cold victuals.
The second day it grew colder, and they were slightly affected by
snow-blindness, for they had lost their dark glasses in the cave.

Even the gold seemed too great a burden to carry, and they found
they had more of it than at first they supposed. On the third day
they were ready to give up, but Abe bravely urged them on. Toward
the close of the fourth day, even the old miner was in despair, for
the food they could carry was not such as to give strength and
warmth, and they saw no game to shoot.

They were just getting ready to go into a cheerless camp for the
night, when Tom, who was a little in advance, looked ahead.

"Ned, do I see something or is it only a vision?" he asked.

"What does it look like?" asked his chum.

"Like Eskimos on sleds."

"That's what it is," agreed Ned, after an observation. "Maybe it's
the Fogers, or some of the savage Indians."

They halted in alarm, and got out their guns. The little party of
natives kept coming on toward them.

Suddenly Abe uttered a cry, but it was one of joy and not fear.

"Hurrah!" he yelled, "It's all right--they're friendly natives!
They're of the same tribe that helped me an' my partner! It's all
right, boys, we're rescued now!"

And so it proved. A few minutes later the gold-seekers were on the
sleds of the friendly Eskimos, some of whom remembered Abe, and the
weary and hungry adventures were being rushed toward the native
village as fast as the dogs could run. It was a hunting party that
had come upon our friends just in time.

Little more remains to be told. Well cared for by the kind Eskimos,
Tom and his friends soon recovered their spirits and strength. They
arranged for dog teams to take them to Sitka, and paid their friends
well for the service, not only in gold, but by presenting what was
of more value, the guns they no longer needed. Tom, however,
retained his electric rifle.

Three weeks after that they were on a steamer bound for
civilization, having bidden their friends the Eskimos good-by.

"Homeward bound," remarked Tom, some time later, as they were in a
train speeding across the continent. "It was a great trip, and the
gold we got will more than repay us, even to building a new airship.
Still, I can't help feeling sorry about the RED CLOUD."

"I don't blame you," returned Ned. "Are you going to build another
airship, Tom?"

"Not one like the RED CLOUD, I think. But I have in mind plans for a
sort of racing craft. I think I'll start it when I get back home."

How Tom's plans developed, and what sort of a craft he built will be
related in the next volume of this series, to be called "Tom Swift
and His Sky Racer; or, the Quickest Flight on Record." In that will
be told how the young inventor foiled his enemies, and how he saved
his father's life. Our friends arrived safely at Shopton in due
season. They learned that the two Fogers had reached there shortly
before them. Tom and his party decided not to prosecute them, and
they did not learn the identity of the men who tried to rob Tom of
the map.

"But I guess Andy won't go about boasting of his airship any more,"
said Ned, "nor of how he got our gold mine away from us. He'll sing
mighty small for a while."

The store of gold brought from the North, proved quite valuable,
though but for the unforeseen accidents our friends could have
secured much more. Yet they were well satisfied. With his share Abe
Abercrombie settled down out West, Mr. Damon gave most of his gold
to his wife, Mr. Parker bought scientific instruments with his, Ned
invested his in bank stock, and Tom Swift, after buying a beautiful
gift for a certain pretty young lady, used part of the remainder to
build his Sky Racer.

And now, for a time, we will take leave of Tom and his friends, and
say good-by.


End




TOM SWIFT AND HIS SKY RACER

or

The Quickest Flight on Record


By

VICTOR APPLETON




CONTENTS

     I  The Prize Offer
    II  Mr. Swift Is Ill
   III  The Plans Disappear
    IV  Anxious Days
     V  Building the Sky Racer
    VI  Andy Foger Will Contest
   VII  Seeking a Clue
  VIII  The Empty Shed
    IX  A Trial Flight
     X  A Midnight Intruder
    XI  Tom Is Hurt
   XII  Miss Nestor Calls
  XIII  A Clash with Andy
   XIV  The Great Test
    XV  A Noise in the Night
   XVI  A Mysterious Fire
  XVII  Mr. Swift Is Worse
 XVIII  The Broken Bridge
   XIX  A Nervy Specialist
    XX  Just in Time
   XXI  "Will He Live?"
  XXII  Off to the Meet
 XXIII  The Great Race
  XXIV  Won by a Length
   XXV  Home Again--Conclusion




TOM SWIFT AND HIS SKY RACER



Chapter One

The Prize Offer


"Is this Tom Swift, the inventor of several airships?"

The man who had rung the bell glanced at the youth who answered his
summons.

"Yes, I'm Tom Swift," was the reply. "Did you wish to see me?"

"I do. I'm Mr. James Gunmore, secretary of the Eagle Park Aviation
Association. I had some correspondence with you about a prize contest
we are going to hold. I believe--"

"Oh, yes, I remember now," and the young inventor smiled pleasantly as
he opened wider the door of his home. "Won't you come in? My father
will be glad to see you. He is as much interested in airships as I am."
And Tom led the way to the library, where the secretary of the aviation
society was soon seated in a big, comfortable leather chair.

"I thought we could do better, and perhaps come to some decision more
quickly, if I came to see you, than if we corresponded," went on Mr.
Gunmore. "I hope I haven't disturbed you at any of your inventions,"
and the secretary smiled at the youth.

"No. I'm through for to-day," replied Tom. "I'm glad to see you. I
thought at first it was my chum, Ned Newton. He generally runs over in
the evening."

"Our society, as I wrote you, Mr. Swift, is planning to hold a very
large and important aviation meet at Eagle Park, which is a suburb of
Westville, New York State. We expect to have all the prominent
'bird-men' there, to compete for prizes, and your name was mentioned. I
wrote to you, as you doubtless recall, asking if you did not care to
enter."

"And I think I wrote you that my big aeroplane-dirigible, the Red
Cloud, was destroyed in Alaska, during a recent trip we made to the
caves of ice there, after gold," replied Tom.

"Yes, you did," admitted Mr. Gunmore, "and while our committee was very
sorry to hear that, we hoped you might have some other air craft that
you could enter at our meet. We want to make it as complete as
possible, and we all feel that it would not be so unless we had a Swift
aeroplane there."

"It's very kind of you to say so," remarked Tom, "but since my big
craft was destroyed I really have nothing I could enter."

"Haven't you an aeroplane of any kind? I made this trip especially to
get you to enter. Haven't you anything in which you could compete for
the prizes? There are several to be offered, some for distance flights,
some for altitude, and the largest, ten thousand dollars, for the
speediest craft. Ten thousand dollars is the grand prize, to be awarded
for the quickest flight on record."

"I surely would like to try for that," said Tom, "but the only craft I
have is a small monoplane, the Butterfly, I call it, and while it is
very speedy, there have been such advances made in aeroplane
construction since I made mine that I fear I would be distanced if I
raced in her. And I wouldn't like that."

"No," agreed Mr. Gunmore. "I suppose not. Still, I do wish we could
induce you to enter. I don't mind telling you that we consider you a
drawing-card. Can't we induce you, some way?"

"I'm afraid not. I haven't any machine which--"

"Look here!" exclaimed the secretary eagerly. "Why can't you build a
special aeroplane to enter in the next meet? You'll have plenty of
time, as it doesn't come off for three months yet. We are only making
the preliminary arrangements. It is now June, and the meet is scheduled
for early in September. Couldn't you build a new and speedy aeroplane
in that time?"

Eagerly Mr. Gunmore waited for the answer. Tom Swift seemed to be
considering it. There was an increased brightness to his eyes, and one
could tell that he was thinking deeply. The secretary sought to clinch
his argument.

"I believe, from what I have heard of your work in the past, that you
could build an aeroplane which would win the ten-thousand-dollar
prize," he went on. "I would be very glad if you did win it, and, so I
think, would be the gentlemen associated with me in this enterprise. It
would be fine to have a New York State youth win the grand prize. Come,
Tom Swift, build a special craft, and enter the contest!"

As he paused for an answer footsteps were heard coming along the hall,
and a moment later an aged gentleman opened the door of the library.

"Oh! Excuse me, Tom," he said, "I didn't know you had company." And he
was about to withdraw.

"Don't go, father," said Tom. "You will be as much interested in this
as I am. This is Mr. Gunmore, of the Eagle Park Aviation Association.
This is my father, Mr. Gunmore."

"I've heard of you," spoke the secretary as he shook hands with the
aged inventor. "You and your son have made, in aeronautics, a name to
be proud of."

"And he wants us to go still farther, dad," broke in the youth. "He
wants me to build a specially speedy aeroplane, and race for ten
thousand dollars."

"Hum!" mused Mr. Swift. "Well, are you going to do it, Tom? Seems to me
you ought to take a rest. You haven't been back from your gold-hunting
trip to Alaska long enough to more than catch your breath, and now--"

"Oh, he doesn't have to go in this right away," eagerly explained Mr.
Gunmore. "There is plenty of time to make a new craft."

"Well, Tom can do as he likes about it," said his father. "Do you think
you could build anything speedier than your Butterfly, son?"

"I think so, father. That is, if you'd help me. I have a plan partly
thought out, but it will take some time to finish it. Still, I might
get it done in time."

"I hope you'll try!" exclaimed the secretary. "May I ask whether it
would be a monoplane or a biplane?"

"A monoplane, I think," answered Tom. "They are much more speedy than
the double-deckers, and if I'm going to try for the ten thousand
dollars I need the fastest machine I can build."

"We have the promise of one or two very fast monoplanes for the meet,"
went on Mr. Gunmore. "Would yours be of a new type?"

"I think it would," was the reply of the young inventor. "In fact, I am
thinking of making a smaller monoplane than any that have yet been
constructed, and yet one that will carry two persons. The hardest work
will be to make the engine light enough and still have it sufficiently
powerful to make over a hundred miles an hour, if necessary.

"A hundred miles an hour in a small monoplane! It isn't possible!"
cried the secretary.

"I'll make better time than that," said Tom quietly, and with not a
trace of boasting in his tones.

"Then you'll enter the meet?" asked Mr. Gunmore eagerly.

"Well, I'll think about it," promised Tom. "I'll let you know in a few
days. Meanwhile, I'll be thinking out the details for my new craft. I
have been going to build one ever since I got back, after having seen
my Red Cloud crushed in the ice cave. Now I think I had better begin
active work."

"I hope you will soon let me know," resumed the secretary. "I'm going
to put you down as a possible contestant for the ten-thousand-dollar
prize.  That can do no harm, and I hope you win it. I trust--"

He paused suddenly, and listened. So did Tom Swift and his father, for
they all distinctly heard stealthy footsteps under the open windows of
the library.

"Some one is out there, listening," said Tom in low tones.

"Perhaps it's Eradicate Sampson," suggested Mr. Swift, referring to the
eccentric colored man who was employed by the inventor and his son to
help around the place. "Very likely it was Eradicate, Tom."

"I don't think so," was the lad's answer. "He went to the village a
while ago, and said he wouldn't be back until late to-night. He had to
get some medicine for his mule, Boomerang, who is sick. No, it wasn't
Eradicate; but some one was under that window, trying to hear what we
said."

As he spoke in guarded tones, Tom went softly to the casement and
looked out. He could observe nothing, as the night was dark, and the
new moon, which had been shining, was now dimmed by clouds.

"See anything?" asked Mr. Gunmore as he advanced to Tom's side.

"No," was the low answer. "I can't hear anything now, either."

"I'll go speak to Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper," volunteered Mr.
Swift.  "Perhaps it was she, or she may know something about it."

He started from the room, and as he went Tom noticed, with something of
a start, that his father appeared older that night than he had ever
looked before. There was a trace of pain on the face of the aged
inventor, and his step was lagging.

"I guess dad needs a rest and doctoring up," thought the young inventor
as he turned the electric chandelier off by a button on the wall, in
order to darken the room, so that he might peer out to better
advantage.  "I think he's been working too hard on his wireless motor.
I must get Dr. Gladby to come over and see dad. But now I want to find
out who that was under this window."

Once more Tom looked out. The moon had emerged from behind a thin bank
of clouds, and gave a little light.

"See anything?" asked Mr. Gunmore cautiously.

"No," whispered the youth, for it being a warm might, the windows were
open top and bottom, a screen on the outside keeping out mosquitoes and
other insects. "I can't see a thing," went on Tom, "but I'm sure--"

He paused suddenly. As he spoke there sounded a rustling in the
shrubbery a little distance from the window.

"There's something!" exclaimed Mr. Gunmore.

"I see!" answered the young inventor.

Without another word he softly opened the screen, and then, stooping
down to get under the lower sash (for the windows in the library ran
all the way to the floor), Tom dropped out of the casement upon the
thick grass.

As he did so he was aware of a further movement in the bushes. They
were violently agitated, and a second later a dark object sprang from
them and sprinted along the path.

"Here! Who are you? Hold on!" cried the young inventor.

But the figure never halted. Tom sprang forward, determined to see who
it was, and, if possible, capture him.

"Hold on!" he cried again. There was no answer.

Tom was a good runner, and in a few seconds he had gained on the
fugitive, who could just be seen in the dim light from the crescent
moon.

"I've got you!" cried Tom.

But he was mistaken, for at that instant his foot caught on the
outcropping root of a tree, and the young inventor went flat on his
face.

"Just my luck!" he cried.

He was quickly on his feet again, and took after the fugitive. The
latter glanced back, and, as it happened, Tom had a good look at his
face. He almost came to a stop, so startled was he.

"Andy Foger!" he exclaimed as he recognized the bully who had always
proved himself such an enemy of our hero. "Andy Foger sneaking under my
windows to hear what I had to say about my new aeroplane! I wonder what
his game can be? I'll soon find out!"

Tom was about to resume the chase, when he lost sight of the figure. A
moment later he heard the puffing of an automobile, as some one cranked
it up.

"It's too late!" exclaimed Tom. "There he goes in his car!" And knowing
it would be useless to keep up the chase, the youth turned back toward
his house.




Chapter Two

Mr. Swift is Ill


"Who was it?" asked Mr. Gunmore as Tom again entered the library. "A
friend of yours?"

"Hardly a friend," replied Tom grimly. "It was a young fellow who has
made lots of trouble for me in the past, and who, lately, with his
father, tried to get ahead of me and some friends of mine in locating a
gold claim in Alaska. I don't know what he's up to now, but certainly
it wasn't any good. He's got nerve, sneaking up under our windows!"

"What do you think was his object?"

"It would be hard to say."

"Can't you find him to-morrow, and ask him?"

"There's not much satisfaction in that. The less I have to do with Andy
Foger the better I'm satisfied. Well, perhaps it's just as well I fell,
and couldn't catch him. There would have been a fight, and I don't want
to worry dad any more than I can help. He hasn't been very well of
late."

"No, he doesn't look very strong," agreed the secretary. "But I hope he
doesn't get sick, and I hope no bad consequences result from the
eavesdropping of this Foger fellow."

Tom started for the hall, to get a brush with which to remove some of
the dust gathered in his chase after Andy. As he opened the library
door to go out Mr. Swift came in again.

"I saw Mrs. Baggert, Tom," he said. "She wasn't out under the window,
and, as you said, Eradicate isn't about. His mule is in the barn, so it
couldn't have been the animal straying around."

"No, dad. It was Andy Foger."

"Andy Foger!"

"Yes. I couldn't catch him. But you'd better go lie down, father. It's
getting late, and you look tired."

"I am tired, Tom, and I think I'll go to bed. Have you finished your
arrangements with Mr. Gunmore?"

"Well, I guess we've gone as far as we can until I invent the new
aeroplane," replied Tom, with a smile.

"Then you'll really enter the meet?" asked the secretary eagerly.

"I think I will," decided Tom. "The prize of ten thousand dollars is
worth trying for, and besides that, I'll be glad to get to work again
on a speedy craft. Yes, I'll enter the meet."

"Good!" exclaimed Mr. Gunmore, shaking hands with the young inventor.
"I didn't have my trip for nothing, then. I'll go back in the morning
and report to the committee that I've been successful. I am greatly
obliged to you."

He left the Swift home, after refusing Tom's invitation to remain all
night, and went to his hotel. Tom then insisted that his father retire.

As for the young inventor, he was not satisfied with the result of his
attempt to catch Andy Foger. He had no idea why the bully was hiding
under the library window, but Tom surmised that some mischief might be
afoot.

"Sam Snedecker or Pete Bailey, the two cronies of Andy, may still be
around here, trying to play some trick on me," mused Tom. "I think I'll
take a look outside." And taking a stout cane from the umbrella rack,
the youth sallied forth into the yard and extensive grounds surrounding
his house.

While he is thus looking for possible intruders we will tell you a
little more about him than has been possible since the call of the
aviation secretary.

Tom Swift lived with his father, Barton Swift, in the town of Shopton,
New York State. The young man had followed in the footsteps of his
parent, and was already an inventor of note.

Their home was presided over by Mrs. Baggert, as housekeeper, since
Mrs. Swift had been dead several years. In addition, there was Garret
Jackson, an engineer, who aided Tom and his father, and Eradicate
Sampson, an odd colored man, who, with his mule, Boomerang, worked
about the place.

In the first volume of this series, entitled "Tom Swift and his
Motor-Cycle," here was related how he came to possess that machine. A
certain Mr. Wakefield Damon, an eccentric gentleman, who was always
blessing himself, or something about him, owned the cycle, but he came
to grief on it, and sold it to Tom very cheaply.

Tom had a number of adventures on the wheel, and, after having used the
motor to save a valuable patent model from a gang of unscrupulous men,
the lad acquired possession of a power boat, in which he made several
trips, and took part in many exciting happenings.

Some time later, in company with John Sharp, an aeronaut, whom Tom had
rescued from Lake Carlopa, after the airman had nearly lost his life in
a burning balloon, the young inventor made a big airship, called the
Red Cloud. With Mr. Damon, Tom made several trips in this craft, as set
forth in the book, "Tom Swift and His Airship."

It was after this that Tom and his father built a submarine boat, and
went under the ocean for sunken treasure, and, following that trip Tom
built a speedy electric runabout, and by a remarkable run in that, with
Mr. Damon, saved a bank from ruin, bringing gold in time to stave off a
panic.

"Tom Swift and His Wireless Message" told of the young inventor's plan
to save the castaways of Earthquake Island, and how he accomplished it
by constructing a wireless plant from the remains of the wrecked
airship Whizzer. After Tom got back from Earthquake Island he went with
Mr. Barcoe Jenks, whom he met on the ill-fated bit of land, to discover
the secret of the diamond makers. They found the mysterious men, but
the trip was not entirely successful, for the mountain containing the
cave where the diamonds were made was destroyed by a lightning shock,
just as Mr. Parker, a celebrated scientist, who accompanied the party,
said it would be.

But his adventure in seeking to discover the secret of making precious
stones did not satisfy Tom Swift, and when he and his friends got back
from the mountains they prepared to go to Alaska to search for gold in
the caves of ice. They were almost defeated in their purpose by the
actions of Andy Foger and his father, who in an under-hand manner, got
possession of a valuable map, showing the location of the gold, and
made a copy of the drawing.

Then, when Tom and his friends set off in the Red Cloud, as related in
"Tom Swift in the Caves of Ice," the Fogers, in another airship, did
likewise. But Tom and his party were first on the scene, and
accomplished their purpose, though they had to fight the savage
Indians.  The airship was wrecked in a cave of ice, that collapsed on
it, and the survivors had desperate work getting away from the frozen
North.

Tom had been home all the following winter and spring, and he had done
little more than work on some small inventions, when a new turn was
given his thoughts and energies by a visit from Mr. Gunmore, as
narrated in the first chapter of the present volume.

"Well, I guess no one is here," remarked the young inventor as he
completed the circuit of the grounds and walked slowly back toward the
house. "I think I scared Andy so that he won't come back right away. He
had the laugh on me, though, when I stumbled and fell."

As Tom proceeded he heard some one approaching, around the path at the
side of the house.

"Who's there?" he called quickly, taking a firmer grasp of his stick.

"It's me, Massa Swift," was the response. "I jest come back from town.
I got some peppermint fo' mah mule, Boomerang, dat's what I got."

"Oh! It's you, is it, Rad?" asked the youth in easier tones.

"Dat's who it am. Did yo' t'ink it were some un else?"

"I did," replied Tom. "Andy Foger has been sneaking around. Keep your
eyes open the rest of the night, Rad."

"I will, Massa Tom."

The youth went into the house, having left word with the engineer, Mr.
Jackson, to be on the alert for anything suspicious.

"And now I guess I'll go to bed, and make an early start to-morrow
morning, planning my new aeroplane," mused Tom. "I'm going to make the
speediest craft of the air ever seen!"

As he started toward his room Tom Swift heard the voice of the
housekeeper calling to him:

"Tom! Oh, Tom! Come here, quickly!"

"What's the matter?" he asked, in vague alarm.

"Something has happened to your father!" was the startling reply. "He's
fallen down, and is unconscious! Come quickly! Send for the doctor!"

Tom fairly ran toward his father's room.




Chapter Three

The Plans Disappear


Mr. Swift was lying on the floor, where he had fallen, in front of his
bed, as he was preparing to retire. There was no mark of injury upon
him, and at first, as he knelt down at his father's side, Tom was at a
loss to account for what had taken place.

"How did it happen? When was it?" he asked of Mrs. Baggert, as he held
up his father's head, and noted that the aged man was breathing
slightly.

"I don't know what happened, Tom," answered the housekeeper, "but I
heard him fall, and ran upstairs, only to find him lying there, just
like that. Then I called you. Hadn't you better have a doctor?"

"Yes; we'll need one at once. Send Eradicate. Tell him to run--not to
wait for his mule--Boomerang is too slow. Oh, no! The telephone, of
course! Why didn't I think of that at first? Please telephone for Dr.
Gladby, Mrs. Baggert. Ask him to come as soon as possible, and then
tell Garret Jackson to step here. I'll have him help me get father into
bed."

The housekeeper hastened to the instrument, and was soon in
communication with the physician, who promised to call at once. The
engineer was summoned from another part of the house, and then
Eradicate was aroused.

Mrs. Baggert had the colored man help her get some kettles of hot water
in readiness for possible use by the doctor. Mr. Jackson aided Tom to
lift Mr. Swift up on the bed, and they got off some of his clothes.

"I'll try to see if I can revive him with a little aromatic spirits of
ammonia," decided Tom, as he noticed that his father was still
unconscious. He hastened to prepare the strong spirits, while he was
conscious of a feeling of fear and alarm, mingled with sadness.

Suppose his father should die? Tom could not bear to think of that. He
would be left all alone, and how much he would miss the companionship
and comradeship of his father none but himself knew.

"Oh! but I mustn't think he's going to die!" exclaimed the youth, as he
mixed the medicine.

Mr. Swift feebly opened his eyes after Tom and Mr. Jackson had
succeeded in forcing some of the ammonia between his lips.

"Where am I? What happened?" asked the aged inventor faintly.

"We don't know, exactly," spoke Tom softly. "You are ill, father. I've
sent for the doctor. He'll fix you up. He'll be here soon."

"Yes, I'm--I'm ill," murmured the aged man. "Something hurts me--here,"
and he put his hand over his heart.

Tom felt a nameless sense of fear. He wished now that he had insisted
on his parent consulting a physician some time before, when Mr. Swift
first complained of a minor ailment. Perhaps now it was too late.

"Oh! when will that doctor come?" murmured Tom impatiently.

Mrs. Baggert, who was nervously going in and out of the room, again
went to the telephone.

"He's on his way," the housekeeper reported. "His wife said he just
started out in his auto."

Dr. Gladby hurried into the room a little later, and cast a quick look
at Mr. Swift, who had again lapsed into unconsciousness.

"Do you think he--think he's going to die?" faltered Tom. He was no
longer the self-reliant young inventor. He could meet danger bravely
when it threatened himself alone, but when his father was stricken he
seemed to lose all courage.

"Die? Nonsense!" exclaimed the doctor heartily. "He's not dead yet, at
all events, and while there's life there's hope. I'll soon have him out
of this spell."

It was some little time, however, before Mr. Swift again opened his
eyes, but he seemed to gain strength from the remedies which Dr. Gladby
administered, and in about an hour the inventor could sit up.

"But you must be careful," cautioned the physician. "Don't overdo
yourself. I'll be in again in the morning, and now I'll leave you some
medicine, to be taken every two hours."

"Oh, I feel much better," said Mr. Swift, and his voice certainly
seemed stronger. "I can't imagine what happened. I came upstairs, after
Tom had received a visit from the minister, and that's all I remember."

"The minister, father!" exclaimed Tom, in great amazement. "The
minister wasn't here this evening! That was Mr. Gunmore, the aviation
secretary.  Don't you remember?"

"I don't remember any gentleman like that calling here to-night," Mr.
Swift said blankly. "It was the minister, I'm sure, Tom."

"The minister was here last night, Mr. Swift," said the housekeeper.

"Was he? Why, it seems like to-night. And I came upstairs after talking
to him, and then it all got black, and--and--"

"There, now; don't try to think," advised the doctor. "You'll be all
right in the morning."

"But I can't remember anything about that aviation man," protested Mr.
Swift. "I never used to be that way--forgetting things. I don't like
it!"

"Oh, it's just because you're tired," declared the physician. "It will
all come back to you in the morning. I'll stop in and see you then. Now
try to go to sleep." And he left the room.

Tom followed him, Mrs. Baggert and Mr. Jackson remaining with the sick
man.

"What is the matter with my father, Dr. Gladby?" asked Tom earnestly,
as the doctor prepared to take his departure. "Is it anything serious?"

"Well," began the medical man, "I would not be doing my duty, Tom, if I
did not tell you what it is. That is, it is comparatively serious, but
it is curable, and I think we can bring him around. He has an affection
of the heart, that, while it is common enough, is sometimes fatal.

"But I do not think it will be so in your father's case. He has a fine
constitution, and this would never have happened had he not been run
down from overwork. That is the principal trouble. What he needs is
rest; and then, with the proper remedies, he will be as well as before."

"But that strange lapse of memory, doctor?"

"Oh, that is nothing. It is due to the fact that he has been using his
brain too much. The brain protests, and refuses to work until rested.
Your father has been working rather hard of late hasn't he?"

"Yes; on a new wireless motor."

"I thought so. Well, a good rest is what he needs, and then his mind
and body will be in tune again. I'll be around in the morning."

Tom was somewhat relieved by the doctor's words, but not very much so,
and he spent an anxious night, getting up every two hours to administer
the medicine. Toward morning Mr. Swift fell into a heavy sleep, and did
not awaken for some time.

"Oh, you're much better!" declared Dr. Gladby when he saw his patient
that day.

"Yes, I feel better," admitted Mr. Swift.

"And can't you remember about Mr. Gunmore calling?" asked Tom.

The aged inventor shook his head, with a puzzled air.

"I can't remember it at all," he said. "The minister is the last person
I remember calling here."

Tom looked worried, but the physician said it was a common feature of
the disease from which Mr. Swift suffered, and would doubtless pass
away.

"And you don't remember how we talked about me building a speedy
aeroplane and trying for the ten-thousand-dollar prize?" asked Tom.

"I can't remember a thing about it," said the inventor, with a puzzled
shake of his head, "and I'm not going to try, at least not right away.
But, Tom, if you're going to build a new aeroplane, I want to help you.
I'll give you the benefit of my advice. I think my new form of motor
can be used in it."

"Now! now! No inventions--at least not just yet!" objected the
physician. "You must have a good rest first, Mr. Swift, and get strong.
Then you and Tom can build as many airships as you like."

Mr. Swift felt so much better about three days later that he wanted to
get right to work planning the airship that was to win the big prize,
but the doctor would not hear of it. Tom, however, began to make rough
sketches of what he had in mind changing them from time to time. He
also worked on a type of motor, very light, and modeled after one his
father had recently patented.

Then a new idea came to Tom in regard to the shape of his aeroplane,
and he worked several days drawing the plans for it. It was a new idea
in construction, and he believed it would give him the great speed he
desired.

"But I'd like dad to see it," he said. "As soon as he's well enough
I'll go over it with him."

That time came a week later, and with a complete set of the plans,
embodying his latest ideas, Tom went into the library where his father
was seated in an easy-chair. Dr. Gladby had said it would not now harm
the aged inventor to do a little work. Tom spread the drawings out in
front of his father, and began to explain them in detail.

"I really think you have something great there, Tom!" exclaimed Mr.
Swift, at length. "It is a very small monoplane, to be sure, but I
think with the new principle you have introduced it will work; but, if
I were you, I'd shape those wing tips a little differently."

"No, they're better that way," said Tom pleasantly, for he did not
often disagree with his father. "I'll show you from a little model I
have made. I'll get it right away."

Anxious to demonstrate that he was right in his theory, Tom hurried
from the library to get the model of which he had spoken. He left the
roll of plans lying on a small table near where his father was seated.

"There, you see, dad," said the young inventor as he re-entered the
library a few minutes later, "when you warp the wing tips in making a
spiral ascent it throws your tail wings out of plumb, and so--"

Tom paused in some amazement, for Mr. Swift was lying back in his
chair, with his eyes closed. The lad started in alarm, laid aside his
model, and sprang to his father's side.

"He's had another of those heart attacks!" gasped Tom. He was just
going to call Mrs. Baggert, when Mr. Swift opened his eyes. He looked
at Tom, and the lad could see that they were bright, and did not show
any signs of illness.

"Well, I declare!" exclaimed the inventor. "I must have dozed off, Tom,
while you were gone. That's what I did. I fell asleep!"

"Oh!" said Tom, much relieved. "I was afraid you were ill again. Now,
in this model, as you will see by the plans, it is necessary--"

He paused, and looked over at the table where he had left the drawings.
They were not there!

"The plans, father!" Tom exclaimed. "The plans I left on the table!
Where are they?"

"I haven't touched them," was the answer. "They were on that table,
where you put them, when I closed my eyes for a little nap. I forgot
all about them. Are you sure they're missing?"

"They're not here!" And Tom gazed wildly about the room. "Where can
they have gone?"

"I wasn't out of my chair," said Mr. Swift, "I ought not to have gone
to sleep, but--"

Tom fairly jumped toward the long library window, the same one from
which he had leaped to pursue Andy Foger. The casement was open, and
Tom noted that the screen was also unhooked. It had been closed when he
went to get the model, he was sure of that.

"Look, dad! See!" he exclaimed, as he picked up from the floor a small
piece of paper.

"What is it, Tom?"

"A sheet on which I did some figuring. It is no good, but it was in
with the plans. It must have dropped out."

"Do you mean that some one has been in here and taken the plans of your
new aeroplane, Tom?" gasped his father.

"That's just what I mean! They sneaked in here while you were dozing,
took the plans, and jumped out of the window with them. On the way this
paper fell out. It's the only clue we have. Stay here, dad. I'm going
to have a look." And Tom jumped from the library window and ran down
the path after the unknown thief.




Chapter Four

Anxious Days


Peering on all sides as he dashed along the gravel walk, hoping to
catch a glimpse of the unknown intruder in the garden or shrubbery, Tom
sprinted on at top speed. Now and then he paused to listen, but no
sound came to him to tell of some one in retreat before him. There was
only Silence.

"Mighty queer," mused the youth. "Whoever it was, he couldn't have had
more than a minute start of me--no, not even half a minute--and yet
they've disappeared as completely as though the ground had opened and
let them down; and the worst of it is, that they've taken my plans with
them!"

He turned about and retraced his steps, making a careful search. He saw
no one, until, turning a corner, a little later, he met Eradicate
Sampson.

"You haven't seen any strangers around here just now, have you, Rad?"
asked Tom anxiously.

"No, indeedy, I hasn't, Massa Tom. What fo' kind ob a stranger was him?"

"That's just what I don't know. Rad. But some one sneaked into the
library just now and took some of my plans while my father dozed off. I
jumped out after him as soon as I could, but he has disappeared."

"Maybe it were th' man who done stowed hisself away on yo' airship, de
time yo' all went after de diamonds," suggested the colored man.

"No, it couldn't have been him. If it was anybody, it was Andy Foger,
or some of his crowd. You didn't see Andy, did you, Rad?"

"No, indeedy; but if I do, I suah will turn mah mule, Boomerang, loose
on him, an' he won't take any mo' plans--not right off, Massa Tom."

"No, I guess not. Well, I must get back to dad, or he'll worry. Keep
your eyes open, Rad, and if you see Andy Foger, or any one else, around
here, let me know. Just sing out for all you're worth."

"Shall I call out, Massa Tom, ef I sees dat blessin' man?"

"You mean Mr. Damon?"

"Dat's de one. De gen'man what's allers a-blessin' ob hisself or his
shoelaces, or suffin laik dat. Shall I sing out ef I sees him?"

"Well, no; not exactly, Rad. Just show Mr. Damon up to the house. I'd
be glad to see him again, though I don't fancy he'll call. He's off on
a little trip, and won't be back for a week. But watch out, Rad." And
with that Tom turned toward the house, shaking his head over the puzzle
of the missing plans.

"Did you find any one?" asked his father eagerly as the young inventor
entered the library.

"No," was the gloomy answer. "There wasn't a sign of any one."

Tom went over to the window and looked about for clues. There was none
that he could see, and a further examination of the ground under the
window disclosed nothing. There was gravel beneath the casement, and
this was not the best medium for retaining footprints. Nor were the
gravel walks any better.

"Not a sign of any one," murmured Tom. "Are you sure you didn't hear
any noise, dad, when you dozed off?"

"Not a sound, Tom. In fact, it's rather unusual for me to go to sleep
like that, but I suppose it's because of my illness. But I couldn't
have been asleep long--not more than two minutes."

"That's what I think. Yet in that time someone, who must have been on
the watch, managed to get in here and take my plans for the new sky
racer. I don't see how they got the wire screen open from the outside,
though. It fastens with a strong hook."

"And was the screen open?" asked Mr. Swift

"Yes, it was unhooked. Either they pushed a wire in through the mesh,
caught it under the hook, and pulled it up from the outside, or else
the screen was opened from the inside."

"I don't believe they could get inside to open the screen without some
of us seeing them," spoke the older inventor. "More likely, Tom, it
wasn't hooked, and they found it an easy matter to simply pull it open."

"That's possible. I'll ask Mrs. Baggert if the screen was unhooked."

But the housekeeper could not be certain on that point, and so that
part of the investigation amounted to nothing.

"It's too bad!" exclaimed Mr. Swift. "It's my fault, for dozing off
that way."

"No, indeed, it isn't!" declared Tom stoutly.

"Is the loss a serious one?" asked his father. "Have you no copy of the
plans?"

"Yes, I have a rough draft from which I made the completed drawings,
and I can easily make another set. But that isn't what worries me--the
mere loss of the plans."

"What is it, then, Tom?"

"The fact that whoever took them must know that they are the plans for
a sky racer that is to take part in the big meet. I have worked it out
on a new principle, and it is not yet patented. Whoever stole my plans
can make the same kind of a sky racer that I intended to construct, and
so stand as good a chance to win the prize of ten thousand dollars as I
will."

"That certainly is too bad, Tom. I never thought of that. Do you
suspect any one?"

"No one, unless it's Andy Foger. He's mean enough to do a thing like
that, but I didn't think he'd have the nerve. However, I'll see if I
can learn anything about him. He may have been sneaking around, and if
he has my plans he'd ask nothing better than to make a sky racer and
beat me."

"Oh, Tom, I'm so sorry!" exclaimed Mr. Swift "I--I feel very bad about
it!"

"There, never mind!" spoke the lad, seeing that his father was looking
ill again. "Don't think any more about it, dad. I'll get back those
plans. Come, now. It's time for your medicine, and then you must lie
down." For the aged inventor was looking tired and weak.

Wearily he let Tom lead him to his room, and after seeing that the
invalid was comfortable Tom called up Dr. Gladby, to have him come and
see Mr. Swift. The doctor said his patient had been overdoing himself a
little, and must rest more if he was to completely recover.

Learning that his father was no worse, Tom set off to find Andy Foger.

"I can't rest until I know whether or not he has my plans," he said to
himself. "I don't want to make a speedy aeroplane, and find out at the
last minute that Andy, or some of his cronies, have duplicated it."

But Tom got little satisfaction from Andy Foger. When that bully was
accused of having been around Tom's house he denied it, and though the
young inventor did not actually accuse him of taking the plans, he
hinted at it. Andy muttered many indignant negatives, and called on
some of his cronies to witness that at the time the plans were taken he
and they were some distance from the Swift home.

So Tom was baffled; and though he did not believe the red-haired lad's
denial, there was no way in which he could prove to the contrary.

"If he didn't take the plans, who did?" mused Tom.

As the young inventor turned away after cross-questioning Andy, the
bully called out:

"You'll never win that ten thousand dollars!"

"What do you know about that?" demanded Tom quickly.

"Oh, I know," sneered Andy. "There'll be bigger and better aeroplanes
in that meet than you can make, and you'll never win the prize."

"I suppose you heard about the affair by sneaking around under our
windows, and listening," said Tom.

"Never mind how I know it, but I do," retorted the bully.

"Well, I'll tell you one thing," said Tom calmly. "If you come around
again it won't be healthy for you. Look out for live wires, if you try
to do the listening act any more, Andy!" And with that ominous warning
Tom turned away.

"What do you suppose he means, Andy?" asked Pete Bailey, one of Andy's
cronies.

"It means he's got electrical wires strung around his place," declared
Sam Snedecker, "and that we'll be shocked if we go up there. I'm not
going!"

"Me, either," added Pete, and Andy laughed uneasily.

Tom heard what they said, and in the next few days he made himself busy
by putting some heavy wires in and about the grounds where they would
show best. But the wires carried no current, and were only displayed to
impress a sense of fear on Andy and his cronies, which purpose they
served well.

But it was like locking the stable door after the horse had been
stolen, for with all the precautions he could take Tom could not get
back his plans, and he spent many anxious days seeking them. They
seemed to have completely disappeared, however, and the young inventor
decided there was nothing else to do but to draw new ones.

He set to work on them, and in the meanwhile tried to learn whether or
not Andy had the missing plans. He sought this information by stealth,
and was aided by his chum, Ned Newton. But all to no purpose. Not the
slightest trace or clue was discovered.




Chapter Five

Building the Sky Racer


"What will you do, if, after you have your little monoplane all
constructed, and get ready to race, you find that some one else has one
exactly like it at the meet?" asked Ned Newton one day, when he and Tom
were out in the big workshop, talking things over. "What will you do,
Tom?"

"I don't see that there is anything I can do. I'll go on to the meet,
of course, and trust to some improvements I have since brought out, and
to what I know about aeroplanes, to help me win the race. I'll know,
too, who stole my plans."

"But it will be too late, then."

"Yes, too late, perhaps, to stop them from using the drawings, but not
too late to punish them for the theft. It's a great mystery, and I'll
be on the anxious seat all the while. But it can't be helped."

"When are you going to start work on the sky racer?"

"Pretty soon, now. I've got another set of plans made, and I've fixed
them so that if they are stolen it won't do any one any good."

"How's that?"

"I've put in a whole lot of wrong figures and measurements, and scores
of lines and curves that mean nothing. I have marked the right figures
and lines by a secret mark, and when I work on them I'll use only the
proper ones. But any one else wouldn't know this. Oh, I'll fool 'em
this time!"

"I hope you do. Well, when you get the machine done I'd like to ride in
it. Will it carry two, as your Butterfly does?"

"Yes, only it will be much different; and, of course, it will go much
faster. I'll give you a ride, all right, Ned. Well, now I must get busy
and see what material I need for what I hope will prove to be the
speediest aeroplane in the world."

"That's going some! I must be leaving now. Don't forget your promise. I
saw Mary Nestor on my way over here. She was asking for you. She said
you must be very busy, for she hadn't seen you in some time."

"Um!" was all Tom answered, but by the blush that mounted to his face
it was evident that he was more interested in Mary Nestor than his mere
exclamation indicated.

When Ned had gone Tom got out pencil and paper, and was busily engaged
in making some intricate calculations. He drew odd little sketches on
the margin of the sheet, and then wrote out a list of the things he
would need to construct the new aeroplane.

This finished, he went to Mr. Jackson, the engineer, and asked him to
get the various things together, and to have them put in the special
shop where Tom did most of his work.

"I want to get the machine together as soon as I can," he remarked to
the engineer, "for it will need to be given a good tryout before I
enter in the race, and I may find that I'll have to make several
changes in it."

Mr. Jackson promised to attend to the matter right away, and then Tom
went in to talk to his father about the motor that was to whirl the
propeller of the new air craft.

Mr. Swift had improved very much in the past few days, and though Dr.
Gladby said he was far from being well, the physician declared there
was no reason why he should not do some inventive work.

He and Tom were deep in an argument of gasoline motors, discussing the
best manner of attaching the fins to the cylinders to make them
air-cooled, when a voice sounded outside, the voice of Eradicate:

"Heah! Whar yo' goin'?" demanded the colored man. "Whar yo' goin'?"

"Somebody's out in the garden!" exclaimed Tom, jumping up suddenly.

"Perhaps it's the same person who took the plans!" suggested Mr. Swift.

"Hold on, dere!" yelled Eradicate again.

Then a voice replied:

"Bless my insurance policy! What's the matter? Have there been burglars
around? Why all these precautions? Bless my steam heater! Don't you
know me?"

"Mr. Damon!" cried Tom, a look of pleasure coming over his face. "Mr.
Damon is coming!"

"So I should judge," responded Mr. Swift, with a smile. "I wonder why
Eradicate didn't recognize him?"

They learned why a moment later, for on looking from the library
window, Tom saw the colored man coming up the walk behind a
well-dressed gentleman.

"Why, mah goodness! It's Mr. Damon!" exclaimed Eradicate. "I didn't
know yo', sah, wif dem whiskers on! I didn't, fo' a fac'!"

"Bless my razor! I suppose it does make a difference," said the
eccentric man. "Yes, my wife thought I'd look better, and more sedate,
with a beard, so I grew one to please her. But I don't like it. A beard
is too warm this kind of weather; eh, Tom?" And Mr. Damon waved his
hand to the young inventor and his father, who stood in the low windows
of the library. "Entirely too warm, bless my finger-nails, yes!"

"I agree with you!" exclaimed Tom. "Come in! We're glad to see you!"

"I called to see if you aren't going on another trip to the North Pole,
or somewhere in the Arctic regions," went on Mr. Damon.

"Why?" inquired Tom.

"Why, then this heavy beard of mine would come in handy. It would keep
my throat and chin warm." And Mr. Damon ran his hands through his
luxuriant whiskers.

"No more northern trips right away," said Tom. "I'm about to build a
speedy monoplane, to take part in the big meet at Eagle Park."

"Oh, yes, I heard about the meet," said Mr. Damon. "I'd like to be in
that."

"Well, I'm building a machine that will carry two," went on Tom, "and
if you think you can stand a speed of a hundred miles an hour, or
better, I'll let you come with me. There are some races where a
passenger is allowed."

"Have you got a razor?" asked Mr. Damon suddenly.

"What for?" inquired Mr. Swift, wondering what the eccentric man was
going to do.

"Why, bless my shaving soap! I'm going to cut off my beard. If I go in
a monoplane at a hundred miles an hour I don't want to make any more
resistance to the wind than possible, and my whiskers would certainly
hold back Tom's machine. Where's a razor? I'm going to shave at once.
My wife won't mind when I tell her what it's for. Lend me a razor,
please, Tom."

"Oh, there's plenty of time," explained the lad, with a laugh. "The
race doesn't take place for over two months. But when it does, I think
you would be better off without a beard."

"I know it," said Mr. Damon simply. "I'll shave before we enter the
contest, Tom. But now tell me all about it."

Tom did so, relating the story of the theft of the plans. Mr. Damon was
for having Andy arrested at once, but Mr. Swift and his son pointed out
that they had no evidence against him.

"All we can do," said the young inventor, "is to keep watch on him, and
see if he is building another aeroplane. He has all the facilities, and
he may attempt to get ahead of me. If he enters a sky craft at the meet
I'll be pretty sure that he has made it from my stolen plans."

"Bless my wing tips!" cried Mr. Damon. "But can't we do anything to
stop him?"

"I'm afraid not," answered Tom; and then he showed Mr. Damon his
re-drawn plans, and told in detail of how he intended to construct the
new aeroplane.

The eccentric man remained as the guest of the Swift family that night,
departing for his home the next day, and promising to be on hand as
soon as Tom was ready to test his new craft, which would be in about a
month.

As the days passed, Tom, with the help of his father, whose health was
slightly better, and with the aid of Mr. Jackson, began work on the
speedy little sky racer.

As you boys are all more or less familiar with aeroplanes, we will not
devote much space to the description of the new one Tom Swift made. We
can describe it in general terms, but there were some features of it
which Tom kept a secret from all save his father.

Suffice it to say that Tom had decided to build a small air craft of
the single-wing type, known as the monoplane. It was to be a cross
between the Bleriot and the Antoinette, with the general features of
both, but with many changes or improvements.

The wings were shaped somewhat like those of a humming-bird, which, as
is well known, can, at times, vibrate its wings with such velocity that
the most rapid camera lens cannot quite catch.

And when it is known that a bullet in flight has been successfully
photographed, the speed of the wings of the humming-bird can be better
appreciated.

The writer has seen a friend, with a very rapid camera, which was used
to snap automobiles in flight, attempt to take a picture of a
humming-bird. He got the picture, all right, but the plate was blurred,
showing that the wings had moved faster than the lens could throw them
on the sensitive plate.

Not that Tom intended the wings of his monoplane to vibrate, but he
adopted that style as being the best adapted to allow of rapid flight
through the air; and the young inventor had determined that he would
clip many minutes from the best record yet made.

The body of his craft, between the forward wings and the rear ones,
where the rudders were located, was shaped like a cigar, with side
wings somewhat like the fin keels of the ocean liner to prevent a
rolling motion. In addition, Tom had an ingenious device to
automatically adapt his monoplane to sudden currents of air that might
overturn it, and this device was one of the points which he kept secret.

The motor, which was air-cooled, was located forward, and was just
above the heads of the operator and the passenger who sat beside him.
The single propeller, which was ten feet in diameter, gave a minimum
thrust of one thousand pounds at two thousand revolutions per minute.

This was one feature wherein Tom's craft differed from others. The
usual aeroplane propeller is eight feet in diameter, and gives from
four to five hundred pounds thrust at about one thousand revolutions
per minute, so it can be readily seen wherein Tom had an advantage.

"But I'm building this for speed," he said to Mr. Jackson, "and I'm
going to get it! We'll make a hundred miles an hour without trouble."

"I believe you," replied the engineer. "The motor you and your father
have made is a wonder for lightness and power."

In fact, the whole monoplane was so light and frail as to give one the
idea of a rather large model, instead of a real craft, intended for
service. But a careful inspection showed the great strength it had, for
it was braced and guyed in a new way, and was as rigid as a
steel-trussed bridge.

"What are you going to call her?" asked Mr. Jackson, about two weeks
after they had started work on the craft, and when it had begun to
assume shape and form.

"I'm going to name her the Humming-Bird," replied Tom. "She's little,
but oh, my!"

"And I guess she'll bring home the prize," added the engineer.

And as the days went by, and Tom, his father and Mr. Jackson continued
to work on the speedy craft, this hope grew in the heart of the young
inventor. But he could not rid himself of worry as to the fate of the
plans that had disappeared. Who had them? Was some one making a machine
like his own from them? Tom wished he knew.




Chapter Six

Andy Foger Will Contest


One afternoon, as Tom was working away in the shop on his sky racer,
adjusting one of the rear rudders, and pausing now and then to admire
the trim little craft, he heard some one approaching. Looking out
through a small observation peephole made for this purpose, he saw Mrs.
Baggert hurrying toward the building.

"I wonder what's the matter?" he said aloud, for there was a look of
worriment on the lady's face. Tom threw open the door. "What is it,
Mrs. Baggert?" he called. "Some one up at the house who wants to see
me?"

"No, it's your father!" panted the housekeeper, for she was quite
stout.  "He is very ill again, and I can't seem to get Dr. Gladby on
the telephone. Central says he doesn't answer."

"My father worse!" cried Tom in alarm, dropping his tools and hurrying
from the shop. "Where's Eradicate? Send him for the doctor. Perhaps the
wires are broken. If he can't locate Dr. Gladby, get Dr. Kurtz. We must
have some one. Here, Rad! Where are you?" he called, raising his voice.

"Heah I be!" answered the colored man, coming from the direction of the
garden, which he had been weeding.

"Get out your mule, and go for Dr. Gladby. If he isn't home, get Dr.
Kurtz. Hurry, Rad!"

"I's mighty sorry, Massa Tom," answered the colored man, "but I cain't
hurry, nohow."

"Why not?"

"Because Boomerang done gone lame, an' he won't run. I'll go mahse'f,
but I cain't take dat air mule."

"Never mind. I'll go in the Butterfly," decided Tom quickly. "I'll run
up to the house and see how dad is, and while I'm gone, Rad, you get
out the Butterfly. I can make the trip in that. If Dr. Kurtz had a
'phone I could get him, but he lives over on the back road, where there
isn't a line. Hurry, Rad!"

"Yes, sah, Massa Tom, I'll hurry!"

The colored man knew how to get the monoplane in shape for a flight, as
he had often done it.

Tom found his father in no immediate danger, but Mr. Swift had had a
slight recurrence of his heart trouble, and it was thought best to have
a doctor. So Tom started off in his air craft, rising swiftly above the
housetop, and sailed off toward the old-fashioned residence of Dr.
Kurtz, a sturdy, elderly German physician, who sometimes attended Mr.
Swift. Tom decided that as long as Dr. Gladby did not answer his
'phone, he could not be at home, and this, he learned later, was the
case, the physician being in a distant town on a consultation.

"My, this Butterfly seems big and clumsy beside my Humming-Bird," mused
Tom as he slid along through the air, now flying high and now low,
merely for practice. "This machine can go, but wait until I have my new
one in the air! Then I'll show 'em what speed is!"

He was soon at the physician's house, and found him in.

"Won't you ride back with me in the monoplane?" asked Tom. "I'm anxious
to have you see dad as soon as you can.

"Vot! Me drust mineself in one ob dem airships? I dinks not!" exclaimed
Dr. Kurtz ponderously. "Vy, I vould not efen ride in an outer-mobile,
yet, so vy should I go in von contrivance vot is efen more dangerous?
No, I gomes to your fader in der carriage, mit mine old Dobbin horse.
Dot vill not drop me to der ground, or run me up a tree, yet! Vot?"

"Very well," said Tom, "only hurry, please."

The young inventor, in his airship, reached home some time before the
slow-going doctor got there in his carriage. Mr. Swift was no worse,
Tom was glad to find, though he was evidently quite ill.

"So, ve must take goot care of him," said the doctor, when he had
examined the patient. "Dr. Gladby he has done much for him, und I can
do little more. You must dake care of yourself, Herr Swift, or you
vill--but den, vot is der use of being gloomy-minded? I am sure you
vill go more easy, und not vork so much."

"I haven't worked much," replied the aged inventor. "I have only been
helping my son on a new airship."

"Den dot must stop," insisted the doctor. "You must haf gomplete
rest--dot's it--gomplete rest."

"We'll do just as you say, doctor," said Tom. "We'll give up the
aeroplane matters, dad, and go away, you and I, where we can't see a
blueprint or a pattern, or hear the sound of machinery. We'll cut it
all out."

"Dot vould he goot," said Dr. Kurtz ponderously.

"No, I couldn't think of it," answered Mr. Swift. "I want you to go in
that race, Tom--and win!"

"But I'll not do it, dad, if you're going to be ill."

"He is ill now," interrupted the doctor. "Very ill, Dom Swift."

"That settles it. I don't go in the race. You and I'll go away, dad--to
California, or up in Canada. We'll travel for your health."

"No! no!" insisted the old inventor gently. "I will be all right. Most
of the work on the monoplane is done now, isn't it, Tom?"

"Yes, dad."

"Then you go on, and finish it. You and Mr. Jackson can do it without
me now. I'll take a rest, doctor, but I want my son to enter that race,
and, what's more, I want him to win!"

"Vell, if you don't vork, dot is all I ask. I must forbid you to do any
more. Mit Dom, dot is different. He is young und strong, und he can
vork. But you--not, Herr Swift, or I doctor you no more." And the
physician shook his big head.

"Very well. I'll agree to that if Tom will promise to enter the race,"
said the inventor.

"I will," said Tom.

The physician took his leave shortly after that, the medicine he gave
to Mr. Swift somewhat relieving him. Then the young inventor, who felt
in a little better spirits, went back to his workshop.

"Poor dad," he mused. "He thinks more of me and this aeroplane than he
does of himself. Well, I will go in the race, and I'll--yes, I'll win!"
And Tom looked very determined.

He was about to resume work on his craft when something about the way
one of the forward planes was tilted attracted his attention.

"I never left it that way," mused Tom. "Some one has been in here. I
wonder if it was Mr. Jackson?"

Tom stepped to the door and called for Eradicate. The colored man came
from the direction of the garden, which he was still weeding.

"Has Mr. Jackson been around, Rad?" asked the lad.

"No, sah. I ain't seed him."

"Have you been in here, looking at the Humming-Bird?"

"No, Massa Tom. I nebber goes in dere, lessen as how yo' is dere. Dem's
yo' orders."

"That's so, Rad. I might have known you wouldn't go in. But did you see
any one enter the shop?"

"Not a pusson, sab."

"Have you been here all the while?"

"All but jes' a few minutes, when I went to de barn to put some
liniment on Boomerang's so' foot."

"H'm! Some one might have slipped in here while I was away," mused Tom.
"I ought to have locked the doors, but I was in a hurry. This thing is
getting on my nerves. I wonder if it's Andy Foger, or some one else,
who is after my secret?"

He made a hasty examination of the shop, but could discover nothing
more wrong, except that one of the planes of the Humming-Bird had been
shifted.

"It looks as if they were trying to see how it was fastened on, and how
it worked," mused Tom. "But my plans haven't been touched, and no
damage has been done. Only I don't like to think that people have been
in here.  They may have stolen some of my ideas. I must keep this place
locked night and day after this."

Tom spent a busy week in making improvements on his craft. Mr. Swift
was doing well, and after a consultation by Dr. Kurtz and Dr. Gladby it
was decided to adopt a new style of treatment. In the meanwhile, Mr.
Swift kept his promise, and did no work. He sat in his easy-chair, out
in the garden, and dozed away, while Tom visited him frequently to see
if he needed anything.

"Poor old dad!" mused the young inventor. "I hope he is well enough to
come and see me try for the ten-thousand-dollar prize--and win it! I
hope I do; but if some one builds, from my stolen plans, a machine on
this model, I'll have my work cut out for me." And he gazed with pride
on the Humming-Bird.

For the past two weeks Tom had seen nothing of Andy Foger. The
red-haired bully seemed to have dropped out of sight, and even his
cronies, Sam Snedecker and Pete Bailey, did not know where he had gone.

"I hope he has gone for good," said Ned Newton, who lived near Andy.
"He's an infernal nuisance. I wish he'd never come back to Shopton."

But Andy was destined to come back.

One day, when Tom was busy installing a wireless apparatus on his new
aeroplane, he heard Eradicate hurrying up the path that led to the shop.

"I wonder if dad is worse?" thought Tom, that always being his first
idea when he knew a summons was coming for him. Quickly be opened the
door.

"Some one's comin' out to see you, Massa Tom," said the colored man.

"Who is it?" asked the lad, taking the precaution to put his precious
plans out of sight.

"I dunno, sah; but yo' father knows him, an' he said fo' me to come out
heah, ahead ob de gen'man, an' tell yo' he were comin'. He'll be right
heah."

"Oh, well, if dad knows him, it's all right. Let him come, Rad."

"Yes, sah. Heah he comes." And the colored man pointed to a figure
advancing down the gravel path. Tom watched the stranger curiously.
There was something familiar about him, and Tom was sure he had met him
before, yet he could not seem to place him.

"How are you, Tom Swift?" greeted the newcomer pleasantly. "I guess
you've forgotten me, haven't you?" He held out his hand, which Tom
took.  "Don't know me, do you?" he went on.

"Well, I'm afraid I've forgotten your name," admitted the lad, just a
bit embarrassed. "But your face is familiar, somehow, and yet it isn't."

"I've shaved off my mustache," went on the other. "That makes a
difference. But you haven't forgotten John Sharp, the balloonist, whom
you rescued from Lake Carlopa, and who helped you build the Red Cloud?
You haven't forgotten John Sharp, have you, Tom?"

"Well, I should say not!" cried the lad heartily. "I'm real glad to see
you. What are you doing around here? Come in. I've got something to
show you," and he motioned to the shop where the Humming-Bird was
housed.

"Oh, I know what it is," said the veteran balloonist.

"You do?"

"Yes. It's your new aeroplane. In fact, I came to see you about it."

"To see me about it?"

"Yes. I'm one of the committee of arrangements for the meet to be held
at Eagle Park, where I understand you are going to contest. I came to
see how near you were ready, and to get you to make a formal entry of
your machine. Mr. Gunmore sent me."

"Oh, so you're in with them now, eh?" asked Tom. "Well, I'm glad to
know I've got a friend on the committee. Yes, my machine is getting
along very well. I'll soon be ready for a trial flight. Come in and
look at it. I think it's a bird--a regular Humming-Bird!" And Tom
laughed.

"It certainly is something new," admitted Mr. Sharp as his eyes took in
the details of the trim little craft. "By the way, Shopton is going to
be well represented at the meet."

"How is that? I thought I was the only one around here to enter an
aeroplane."

"No. We have just received an entry from Andy Foger."

"From Andy Foger!" gasped Tom. "Is he going to try to win some of the
prizes?"

"He's entered for the big one, the ten-thousand-dollar prize," replied
the balloonist. "He has made formal application to be allowed to
compete, and we have to accept any one who applies. Why, do you object
to him, Tom?"

"Object to him? Mr. Sharp, let me tell you something. Some time ago a
set of plans of my machine here were stolen from my house. I suspected
Andy Foger of taking them, but I could get no proof. Now you say he is
building a machine to compete for the big prize. Do you happen to know
what style it is?"

"It's a small monoplane, something like the Antoinette, his application
states, though he may change it later."

"Then he's stolen my ideas, and is making a craft like this!" exclaimed
Tom, as he sank upon a bench, and gazed from the balloonist to the
Humming-Bird, and back to Mr. Sharp again. "Andy Foger is trying to
beat me with my own machine!"




Chapter Seven

Seeking a Clue


John Sharp was more than surprised at the effect his piece of
information had on Tom Swift. Though the young inventor had all along
suspected Andy of having the missing plans, yet there had been no
positive evidence on this point. That, coupled with the fact that the
red-haired bully had not been seen in the vicinity of Shopton lately,
had, in a measure, lulled Tom's suspicions to rest, but now his hope
had been rudely shattered.

"Do you really think that's his game?" asked Mr. Sharp.

"I'm sure of it," replied the youth. "Though where he is building his
aeroplane I can't imagine, for I haven't seen him in town. He's away."

"Are you sure of that?"

"Well, not absolutely sure," replied Tom. "It's the general rumor that
he's out of town."

"Well, old General Rumor is sometimes a person not to be relied upon,"
remarked the balloonist grimly. "Now this is the way I size it up: Of
course, all I know officially is that Andy Foger has sent in an entry
for the big race for the ten-thousand-dollar prize which is offered by
the Eagle Park Aviation Association. I'm a member of the arrangements
committee, and so I know. I also know that you and several others are
going to try for the prize. That's all I am absolutely sure of.

"Now, when you tell me about the missing plans, and you conclude that
Andy is doing some underhanded work, I agree with you. But I go a step
farther. I don't believe he's out of town at all."

"Why not?" exclaimed Tom.

"Because when he has an airship shed right in his own backyard, where,
you tell me, he once made a craft in which he tried to beat you out in
the trip to Alaska, when you think of that, doesn't it seem reasonable
that he'd use that same building in which to make his new craft?"

"Yes, it does," admitted Tom slowly, "but then everybody says he's out
of town."

"Well, what everybody says is generally not so. I think you'll find
that Andy is keeping himself in seclusion, and that he's working
secretly in his shop, building a machine with which to beat you."

"Do you, really?"

"I certainly do. Have you been around his place lately?"

"No. I've been too busy; and then I never have much to do with him."

"Then take my advice, and see if you can't get a look inside that shop.
You may see something that will surprise you. If you find that Andy is
infringing on your patented ideas, you can stop him by an injunction.
You've got this model patented, I take it?"

"Oh, yes. I didn't have at the time the plans were stolen, but I've
patented it since. I could get at him that way."

"Then take my advice, and do it. Get a look inside that shed, and
you'll find Andy working secretly there, no matter if his cronies do
think he's out of town."

"I believe I will," agreed Tom, and somehow he felt better now that he
had decided on a plan of action. He and the balloonist talked over at
some length just the best way to go about it, for the young inventor
recalled the time when he and Ned Newton had endeavored to look into
Andy's shed, with somewhat disastrous results to themselves; but Tom
knew that the matter at stake justified a risk, and he was willing to
take it.

"Well, now that's settled," said Mr. Sharp, "tell me more about
yourself and your aeroplane. My! To think that the Red Cloud was
destroyed! That was a fine craft."

"Indeed she was," agreed Tom. "I'm going to make another on similar
lines, some day, but now all my time is occupied with the Humming-Bird."

"She is a hummer, too," complimented Mr. Sharp. "But I almost forgot
the real object of my trip here. There is no doubt about you going in
the race, is there?"

"I fully expect to," replied Tom. "The only thing that will prevent me
will be--"

"Don't say you're worried on account of what Andy Foger may do,"
interrupted Mr. Sharp.

"I'm not. I'll attend to Andy, all right. I was going to say that my
father's illness might interfere. He's not well at all. I'm quite
worried about him."

"Oh, I sincerely hope he'll be all right," remarked the balloonist. "We
want you in this race. In fact, we're going to feature you, as they say
about the actors and story-writers. The committee is planning to do
considerable advertising on the strength of Tom Swift, the well-known
young inventor, being a contestant for the ten-thousand-dollar prize."

"That's very nice, I'm sure," replied Tom, "and I'm going to do my
best.  Perhaps dad will take a turn for the better. He wants me to win
as much as I want to myself. Well, we'll not worry about it, anyhow,
until the time comes. I want to show you some new features of my latest
aeroplane."

"And I want to see them, Tom. Don't you think you're making a mistake,
though, in equipping it with a wireless outfit?"

"Why so?"

"Well, because it will add to the weight, and you want such a small
machine to be as light as possible."

"Yes, but you see I have a very light engine. That part my father
helped me with. In fact, it is the lightest air-cooled motor made, for
the amount of horsepower it develops, so I can afford to put on the
extra weight of the wireless outfit. I may need to signal when I am
flying along at a hundred miles an hour."

"That's so. Well, show me some of the other good points. You've
certainly got a wonderful craft here."

Tom and Mr. Sharp spent some time going over the Humming-Bird and in
talking over old times. The balloonist paid another visit to Mr. Swift,
who was feeling pretty good, and who expressed his pleasure in seeing
his old friend again.

"Can't you stay for a few days?" asked Tom, when Mr. Sharp was about to
leave. "If you wait long enough you may be able to help me work up the
clues against Andy Foger, and also witness a trial flight of the
Humming-Bird."

"I'd like to stay, but I can't," was the answer. "The committee will be
anxious for me to get back with my report. Good luck to you. I'll see
you at the time of the race, if not before."

Tom resolved to get right to work seeking clues against his old enemy,
Andy, but the next day Mr. Swift was not so well, and Tom had to remain
in the house. Then followed several days, during which time it was
necessary to do some important work on his craft, and so a week passed
without any information having been obtained.

In the meanwhile Tom had made some cautious inquiries, but had learned
nothing about Andy. He had no chance to interview Pete or Sam, the two
cronies, and he did not think it wise to make a bald request for
information at the Foger home.

Ned Newton could not be of any aid to his friend, as he was kept busy
in the bank night and day, working over a new set of books.

"I wonder how I can find out what I want to know?" mused Tom one
afternoon, when he had done considerable work on the Humming-Bird. "I
certainly ought to do it soon, so as to be able to stop Andy if he's
infringing on my patents. Yet, I don't see how--"

His thoughts were interrupted by hearing a voice outside the shop,
exclaiming:

"Bless my toothpick! I know the way, Eradicate, my good fellow. It
isn't necessary for you to come. As long as Tom Swift is out there,
I'll find him. Bless my horizontal rudder! I'm anxious to see what
progress he's made. I'll find him, if he's about!"

"Yes, sah, he's right in dere," spoke the colored man. "He's workin' on
dat Dragon Fly of his." Eradicate did not always get his names right.

"Mr. Damon!" exclaimed Tom in delight, at the sound of his friend's
voice. "I believe he can help me get evidence against Andy Foger. I
wonder I didn't think of it before! The very thing! I'll do it!"




Chapter Eight

The Empty Shed


"Bless my dark-lantern! Where are you, Tom?" called Mr. Damon as he
entered the dim shed where the somewhat frail-appearing aeroplane
loomed up in the semi-darkness, for it was afternoon, and rather
cloudy. "Where are you?"

"Here!" called the young inventor. "I'm glad to see you! Come in!"

"Ah! there it is, eh?" exclaimed the odd man, as he looked at the
aeroplane, for there had been much work done on it since he had last
seen it. "Bless my parachute, Tom! But it looks as though you could
blow it over."

"It's stronger than it seems," replied the lad. "But, Mr. Damon, I've
got something very important to talk to you about."

Thereupon Tom told all about Mr. Sharp's visit, of Andy's entry in the
big race, and of the suspicions of himself and the balloonist.

"And what is it you wish me to do?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Work up some clues against Andy Foger."

"Good! I'll do it! I'd like to get ahead of that bully and his father,
who once tried to wreck the bank I'm interested in. I'll help you, Tom!
I'll play detective! Let me see--what disguise shall I assume? I think
I'll take the part of a tramp. Bless my ham sandwich! That will be the
very thing. I'll get some ragged clothes, let my beard grow again--you
see I shaved it off since my last visit--and I'll go around to the
Foger place and ask for work. Then I can get inside the shed and look
around.  How's that for a plan?"

"It might be all right," agreed Tom, "only I don't believe you're cut
out for the part of a tramp, Mr. Damon."

"Bless my fingernails! Why not?"

"Oh, well, it isn't very pleasant to go around in ragged clothes."

"Don't mind about me. I'll do it." And the odd gentleman seemed quite
delighted at the idea. He and Tom talked it over at some length, and
then adjourned to the house, where Mr. Swift, who had seemed to improve
in the last few days, was told of the plan.

"Couldn't you go around after evidence just as you are?" asked the aged
inventor. "I don't much care for this disguising business."

"Oh, it's very necessary," insisted Mr. Damon earnestly. "Bless my
gizzard! but it's very necessary. Why, if I went around the Foger place
as I am now, they'd know me in a minute, and I couldn't find out what I
want to know."

"Well, if you keep on blessing yourself," said Tom, with a laugh,
"they'll know you, no matter what disguise you put on, Mr. Damon."

"That's so," admitted the eccentric gentleman. "I must break myself of
that habit. I will. Bless my topknot! I'll never do it any more. Bless
my trousers buttons!"

"I'm afraid you'll never do it!" exclaimed Tom.

"It is rather hard," said Mr. Damon ruefully, as he realized what he
had said. "But I'll do it. Bless--"

He paused a moment, looked at Tom and his father, and then burst into a
laugh. The habit was more firmly fastened on him than he was aware.

For several hours Tom, his father and Mr. Damon discussed various
methods of proceeding, and it was finally agreed that Mr. Damon should
first try to learn what Andy was doing, if anything, without resorting
to a disguise.

"Then, if that doesn't work, I'll become a tramp," was the decision of
the odd character. "I'll wear the raggedest clothes I can find Bless--"
But he stopped in time.

Mr. Damon took up his residence in the Swift household, as he had often
done before, and for the next week he went and came as he pleased,
sometimes being away all night.

"It's no use, though," declared Mr. Damon at the end of the week. "I
can't get anywhere near that shed, nor even get a glimpse inside of it.
I haven't been able to learn anything, either. There are two gardeners
on guard all the while, and several times when I've tried to go in the
side gate, they've stopped me."

"Isn't there any news of Andy about town?" asked Tom. "I should think
Sam or Pete would know where he is."

"Well, I didn't ask them, for they'd know right away why I was
inquiring," said Mr. Damon, "but it seems to me as if there was
something queer going on. If Andy Foger is working in that shed of his,
he's keeping mighty quiet about it. Bless my--"

And once more he stopped in time. He was conquering the habit in a
measure.

"Well, what do you propose to do next?" asked Tom.

"Disguise myself like a tramp, and go there looking for work," was the
firm answer. "There are plenty of odd jobs on a big place such as the
Foger family have. I'll find out what I want to know, you see."

It seemed useless to further combat this resolution, and, in a few days
Mr. Damon presented a very different appearance. He had on a most
ragged suit, there was a scrubby beard on his face, and he walked with
a curious shuffle, caused by a pair of big, heavy shoes which he had
donned, first having taken the precaution to make holes in them and get
them muddy.

"Now I'm all ready," he said to Tom one day, when his disguise was
complete. "I'm going over and try my luck."

He left the house by a side door, so that no one would see him, and
started down the walk. As he did so a voice shouted:

"Hi, there! Git right out oh heah! Mistah Swift doan't allow no tramps
heah, an' we ain't got no wuk fo' yo', an' there ain't no cold
victuals.  I does all de wuk, me an' mah mule Boomerang, an' we takes
all de cold victuals, too! Git right along, now!"

"It's Eradicate. He doesn't know you," said Tom, with a chuckle.

"So much the better," whispered Mr. Damon. But the disguise proved
almost too much of a success, for seeing the supposed tramp lingering
near the house, Eradicate caught up a stout stick and rushed forward.
He was about to strike the ragged man, when Tom called out:

"That's Mr. Damon, Rad!"

"Wh--what!" gasped the colored man; and when the situation had been
explained to him, and the necessity for silence impressed upon him, he
turned away, too surprised to utter a word. He sought consolation in
the stable with his mule.

Just what methods Mr. Damon used he never disclosed, but one thing is
certain: That night there came a cautious knock on the door of the
Swift home, and Tom, answering it, beheld his odd friend.

"Well," he asked eagerly, "what luck?"

"Put on a suit of old clothes, and come with me," said Mr. Damon.
"We'll look like two tramps, and then, if we're discovered, they won't
know it was you."

"Have you found out anything?" asked Tom eagerly.

"Not yet; but I've got a key to one of the side doors of the shed, and
we can get in as soon as it's late enough so that everybody there will
be in bed."

"A key? How did you get it?" inquired the youth.

"Never mind," was the answer, with a chuckle. "That was because of my
disguise; and I haven't blessed anything to-day. I'm going to, soon,
though. I can feel it coming on. But hurry, Tom, or we may be too late."

"And you haven't had a look inside the shed?" asked the young inventor.
"You don't know what's there?"

"No; but we soon will."

Eagerly Tom put on some of the oldest and most ragged garments he could
find, and then he and the odd gentleman set off toward the Foger home.
They waited some time after getting in sight of it, because they saw a
light in one of the windows. Then, when the house was dark, they stole
cautiously forward toward the big, gloomy shed.

"On this side," directed Mr. Damon in a whisper. "The key I have opens
this door."

"But we can't see when we get inside," objected Tom. "I should have
brought a dark lantern."

"I have one of those pocket electric flashlights," said Mr. Damon.
"Bless my candlestick! but I thought of that." And he chuckled
gleefully.

Cautiously they advanced in the darkness. Mr. Damon fumbled at the lock
of the door. The key grated as he turned it. The portal swung back, and
Tom and his friend found themselves inside the shed which, of late, had
been such an object of worry and conjecture to the young inventor. What
would he find there?

"Flash the light," he called to Mr. Damon in a hoarse whisper.

The eccentric man drew it from his packet. He pressed the spring switch,
and in an instant a brilliant shaft of radiance shot out, cutting the
intense blackness like a knife. Mr. Damon flashed it on all sides.

But to the amazement of Tom and his companion, it did not illuminate
the broad white wings and stretches of canvas of an aeroplane. It only
shone on the bare walls of the shed, and on some piles of rubbish in
the corners. Up and down, to right and left, shot the pencil of light.

"There's--there's nothing here!" gasped Tom.

"I--I guess you're right!" agreed Mr. Damon "The shed is empty!"

"Then where is Andy Foger building his aeroplane?" asked Tom in a
whisper; but Mr. Damon could not answer him.




Chapter Nine

A Trial Flight


For a few moments after their exclamations of surprise Tom and Mr.
Damon did not know what else to say. They stared about in amazement,
hardly able to believe that the shed could be empty. They had expected
to see some form of aeroplane in it, and Tom was almost sure his eyes
would meet a reproduction of his Humming-Bird, made from the stolen
plans.

"Can it be possible there's nothing here?" went on Tom, after a long
pause. He could not seem to believe it.

"Evidently not," answered Mr. Damon, as he advanced toward the center
of the big building and flashed the light on all sides. "You can see
for yourself."

"Or, rather, you can't see," spoke the youth. "It isn't here, that's
sure. You can't stick an aeroplane, even as small a one as my Humming
Bird, in a corner. No; it isn't here."

"Well, we'll have to look further," went on Mr. Damon. "I think--"

But a sudden noise near the big main doors of the shed interrupted him.

"Come on!" exclaimed Tom in a whisper. "Some one's coming! They may see
us! Let's get out!"

Mr. Damon released the pressure on the spring switch, and the light
went out. After waiting a moment to let their eyes become accustomed to
the darkness, he and Tom stole to the door by which they had entered.
As they swung it cautiously open they again heard the noise near the
main portals by which Andy had formerly taken in and out the Anthony,
as he had named the aeroplane in which he and his father went to
Alaska, where, like Tom's craft, it was wrecked.

"Some one is coming in!" whispered Tom.

Hardly had he spoken when a light shone in the direction of the sound.
The illumination came from a big lantern of the ordinary kind, carried
by some one who had just entered the shed.

"Can you see who it is?" whispered Mr. Damon, peering eagerly forward;
too eagerly, for his foot struck against the wooden side wall with a
loud bang.

"Who's there?" suddenly demanded the person carrying the lantern.

He raised it high above his head, in order to cast the gleams into all
the distant corners. As he did so a ray of light fell upon his face.
"Andy Foger!" gasped Tom in a hoarse whisper.

Andy must have heard, for he ran forward just as Tom and Mr. Damon
slipped out.

"Hold on! Who are you?" came in the unmistakable tones of the
red-haired bully.

"I don't think we're going to tell," chuckled Tom softly, as he and his
friend sped off into the darkness. They were not followed, and as they
looked back they could see a light bobbing about in the shed.

"He's looking for us!" exclaimed Mr. Damon with an inward laugh. "Bless
my watch chain! But it's a good thing we got in ahead of him. Are you
sure it was Andy himself?"

"Sure! I'd know his face anywhere. But I can't understand it. Where has
he been? What is he doing? Where is he building his aeroplane? I
thought he was out of town."

"He may have come back to-night," said Mr. Damon. "That's the only one
of your questions I can answer. We'll have to wait about the rest, I'm
sure he wasn't around the house to-day, though, for I was working at
weeding the flower beds, in my disguise as a tramp, and if he was home
I'd have seen him. He must have just come back, and he went out to his
shed to get something. Well, we did the best we could."

"Indeed we did," agreed Tom, "and I'm ever so much obliged to you, Mr.
Damon."

"And we'll try again, when we get more clues. Bless my shoelaces! but
it's a relief to be able to talk as you like."

And forthwith the eccentric man began to call down so many blessings on
himself and on his belongings, no less than on his friends, that Tom
laughingly warned him that he had better save some for another time.

The two reached home safely, removed their "disguises," and told Mr.
Swift of the result of their trip. He agreed with them that there was a
mystery about Andy's aeroplane which was yet to be solved.

But Tom was glad to find that, at any rate, the craft was not being
made in Shopton, and during the next two weeks he devoted all his time
to finishing his own machine. Mr. Jackson was a valuable assistant, and
Mr. Damon gave what aid he could.

"Well, I think I'll be ready for a trial flight in another week," said
Tom one day, as he stepped back to get a view of the almost completed
Humming-Bird.

"Shall you want a passenger?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Yes, I wish you would take a chance with me. I could use a bag of
sand, not that I mean you are to be compared to that," added Tom
quickly, "but I'd rather have a real person, in order to test the
balancing apparatus.  Yes, we'll make a trial trip together."

In the following few days Tom went carefully over the aeroplane, making
some slight changes, strengthening it here and there, and testing the
motor thoroughly. It seemed to work perfectly.

At length the day of the trial came, and the Humming-Bird was wheeled
out of the shed. In spite of the fact that it was practically finished,
there yet remained much to do on it. It was not painted or decorated,
and looked rather crude. But what Tom wanted to know was how it would
fly, what control he had over it, what speed it could make, and how it
balanced. For it was, at best, very frail, and the least change in
equilibrium might be fatal.

Before taking his place in the operator's seat Tom started the motor,
and by means of a spring balance tested the thrust of the propellers.
It was satisfactory, though he knew that when the engine had been run
for some time, and had warmed up, it would do much better.

"All ready, I guess, Mr. Damon!" he called, and the odd gentleman took
his place. Tom got up into his own seat, in front of several wheels and
levers by which he operated the craft.

"Start the propeller!" he requested of Mr. Jackson, and soon the motor
was spitting fire, while the big, fan-like blades were whirring around
like wings of light. The engineer and Eradicate were holding back the
Humming-Bird.

"Let her go!" cried Tom as he turned on more gasoline and further
advanced the spark of the motor. The roar increased, the propeller
looked like a solid circle of wood, and the trim little monoplane moved
slowly across the rising ground, increasing its speed every second,
until, like some graceful bird, it suddenly rose in the air as Tom
tilted the wing tips, and soared splendidly aloft!




Chapter Ten

A Midnight Intruder


Tom Swift sent his wonderful little craft upward on a gentle slant.
Higher and higher it rose above the ground. Now it topped the trees;
now it was well over them.

On the earth below stood Mr. Swift, Mr. Jackson, Eradicate and Mrs.
Baggert. They were the only witnesses of the trial flight, and as the
aged inventor saw his son's latest design in aeroplanes circling in the
air he gave a cheer of delight. It was too feeble for Tom to hear, but
the lad, glancing down, saw his father waving his hand to him.

"Dear old dad!" thought Tom, waving in return. "I hope he's well enough
to see me win the big prize."

Tom and Mr. Damon went skimming easily through the air, at no great
speed, to be sure, for the young inventor did not want to put too
sudden a strain on his motor.

"This is glorious!" cried the odd gentleman. "I never shall have enough
of aeroplaning, Tom!"

"Nor I, either," added his companion. "But how do you like it? Don't
you think it's an improvement on my Butterfly, Mr. Damon?"

"It certainly is. You're a wonder, Tom! Look out! What are you up to?"
for the machine had suddenly swerved in a startling manner.

"Oh, that's just a new kind of spiral dip I was trying," answered Tom.
"I couldn't do that with my other machine, for I couldn't turn sharp
enough."

"Well, don't do it right away again," begged Mr. Damon, who had turned
a little white, and whose breath was coming in gasps, even though he
was used to hair-raising stunts in the frail craft of the air.

Tom did not take his machine far away, for he did not want to exhibit
it to the public yet, and he preferred to remain in the vicinity of his
home, in case of any accident. So he circled around, did figures of
eight, went up and down on long slants, took sharp turns, and gave the
craft a good tryout.

"Does it satisfy you?" asked Mr. Damon, when Tom had once more made the
spiral dip, but not at high speed.

"In a way, yes," was the answer. "I see a chance for several changes
and improvements. Of course, I know nothing about the speed yet, and
that's something that I'm anxious about, for I built this with the idea
of breaking all records, and nothing else. I know, now, that I can
construct a craft that will successfully navigate the air; in fact,
there are any number of people who can do that; but to construct a
monoplane that will beat anything ever before made is a different
thing.  I don't yet know that I have done it."

"When will you?"

"Oh, when I make some changes, get the motor tuned up better, and let
her out for all she's worth. I want to do a hundred miles an hour, at
least. I'll arrange for a speedy flight in about two weeks more."

"Then I think I will stay home," said Mr. Damon.

"No; I'll need you," insisted Tom, laughing. "Now watch. I'm going to
let her out just a little."

He did, with the result that they skimmed through the air so fast that
Mr. Damon's breath became a mere series of gasps.

"We'll have to wear goggles and mouth protectors when we really go
fast!" yelled Tom above the noise of the motor, as he slowed down and
turned about for home.

"Go fast! Wasn't that fast?" asked Mr. Damon.

Tom shook his head.

"You wait, and you'll see," he announced.

They made a good landing, and Mr. Swift hastened up to congratulate his
son.

"I knew you could do it, Tom!" he cried.

"I couldn't, though, if it hadn't been for that wonderful engine of
yours, dad! How do you feel?"

"Pretty good. Oh! but that's a fine machine, Tom!"

"It certainly is," agreed Mr. Jackson.

"It will be when I have it in better trim," admitted the young inventor
modestly.

"By golly!" cried Eradicate, who was grinning almost from ear to ear,
"I's proud oh yo', Massa Tom, an' so will mah mule Boomerang be, when I
tells him. Yes, sah, dat's what he will be--proud ob yo', Massa Tom!"

"Thanks, Rad."

"Well, some folks is satisfied with mighty little under 'em, when they
go up in the air, that's my opinion," said Mrs. Baggert.

"Why, wouldn't you ride in this?" asked Tom of the buxom housekeeper.

"Not if you was to give me ten thousand dollars!" she cried firmly.
"Oh, dear! I think the potatoes are burning!" And she rushed back into
the house.

The next day Tom started to work overhauling the Humming-Bird, and
making some changes. He altered the wing tips slightly, and adjusted
the motor, until in a thrust test it developed nearly half again as
much power as formerly.

"And I'll need it all," declared Tom as he thought of the number of
contestants that had entered the great race.

For the Eagle Park meet was to be a large and important one, and the
principal "bird-men" of the world were to have a part in it. Tom knew
that he must do his very best, and he spared no efforts to make his
monoplane come up to his ideal, which was a very exacting one.

"We'll have a real speed test to-morrow," Tom announced to Mr. Damon
one night. "I'll see what the Humming-Bird can really do. You'll come,
won't you?"

"Oh, I suppose so. Bless my insurance policy! I might as well take the
same chance you do. But if you're going to have such a nerve-racking
thing as that on the program, you'd better get to bed early and have
plenty of sleep."

"Oh, I'm not tired. I think I'll go out this evening."

"Where?"

"Oh, just around town, to see some of the fellows." But if Tom was only
going around town merely to see his male friends, why did he dress so
carefully, put on a new necktie, and take several looks in the glass
before he went out? We think you can guess, and also the girl's name.

The young inventor got in rather late, and after a visit to the
aeroplane shed, to see that all was right there, he went to bed, first
connecting up the burglar-alarm wires that guarded the doors and
windows of the aerodrome.

How long he had been asleep Tom did not know, but he was suddenly
awakened by hearing the buzzing of the alarm at the head of his bed. At
first he took it for the droning and humming of the aeroplane motor, as
he had a hazy notion, and a sort of dream, that he was in his craft.

Then, with a start, he realized what it was--the burglar alarm.

"Some one's in the shed!" he gasped.

Out of bed he leaped, drawing on his trousers and coat, and putting on
a pair of slippers, with speed worthy of a fireman. He grabbed up a
revolver and rushed from his room, pounding on the door of Mr.
Jackson's apartment in passing.

"Some one in the shed, after the Humming-Bird!" shouted Tom. "Get a
gun, and come down!"




Chapter Eleven

Tom Is Hurt


As Tom passed down the hall on his way to the side door, from which he
could more quickly reach the aeroplane shed, he saw his father coming
from his room.

"What's the matter? What is it?" asked Mr. Swift, and alarm showed on
his pale face.

"It's nothing much, dad," said the youth, as quietly as he could, for
he realized that to excite his father might have a bad effect on the
invalid.

"Then why are you in such a hurry? Why have you that revolver? I know
there is something wrong, Tom. I am going to help you!"

In his father's present weakened state Tom desired this least of all,
so he said:

"Now, never mind, dad. I thought I heard a noise out in the yard, and
I'm not going to take any chances. So I roused Mr. Jackson, and I'm
going down to see what it is. Perhaps it may only be Eradicate's mule,
Boomerang, kicking around, or it may be Rad himself, or some one after
his chickens. Don't worry. Mr. Jackson and I can attend to it. You go
back to bed, father."

Tom spoke with such assurance that Mr. Swift believed him, and retired
to his room, just as the engineer, partly dressed, came hurrying out in
response to Tom's summons. He had his rifle, and, had the invalid
inventor seen that, he surely would have worried more.

"Come on!" whispered Tom. "Don't make any noise. I don't want to excite
my father."

"What was it?" asked the engineer.

"I don't know. Burglar alarm went off, that's all I can say until we
get to the shed."

Together the two left the house softly, and soon were hurrying toward
the aeroplane shed.

"Look!" exclaimed Mr. Jackson. "Didn't you see a light just then, Tom?"

"Where?"

"By the side window of the shed?"

"No, I didn't notice it! Oh, yes! There it is! Some one is in there! If
it's Andy Foger, I'll have him arrested, sure!"

"Maybe we can't catch him."

"That's so. Andy is a pretty slippery customer. Say, Mr. Jackson, you
go around and get Eradicate, and have him bring a club. We can't trust
him with a gun. Tell him to get at the back door, and I'll wait for you
to join me, and we'll go in the front door. Then we'll have 'em between
two fires. They can't get away."

"How about the windows?"

"They're high up, and hard to open since I put the new catches on them.
Whoever got in must have forced the lock of the door. There goes the
light again!"

As Tom spoke there was seen the faint glimmer of a light. It moved
slowly about the interior of the shed, and with a peculiar bobbing
motion, which indicated that some one was carrying it.

"Go for Eradicate, and don't make any more noise than you can help in
waking him up," whispered Tom, for they were now close to the shed, and
might be heard.

Mr. Jackson slipped off in the darkness, and Tom drew nearer to the
building that housed his Humming-Bird. There was one window lower than
the others, and near it was a box, that Tom remembered having seen that
afternoon. He planned to get up on that and look in, before making a
raid to capture the intruder.

Tom raised himself up to the window. The light had been visible a
moment before he placed the box in position, but an instant later it
seemed to go out, and the place was in darkness.

"I wonder if they've gone away?" thought Tom. "I can't hear any noise."

He listened intently. It was dark and silent in the shop. Suddenly the
light flashed up brighter than before, and the young inventor caught
sight of a man walking around the new aeroplane, examining it
carefully.  He carried, as Tom could see, a large-sized electric
flash-lamp, with a brilliant tungsten filament, which gave a powerful
light.

As the youth watched, he saw the intruder place the light on a bench,
in such a position that the rays fell full upon the Humming-Bird. Then,
adjusting the spring switch so that the light would continue to glow,
the man stepped back and drew something from an inner pocket.

"I wonder what he's up to?" mused Tom. "I wish Eradicate and Mr.
Jackson would hurry back. Who can that fellow be, I wonder? I've never
seen him before, as far as I know. I thought sure it was going to turn
out to be Andy Foger!"

Tom turned around to look into the dark yard surrounding the shed. He
was anxious to hear the approach of his two allies, but there was no
sound of their footsteps.

As he turned back to watch the man he could not repress a cry of alarm,
for what the intruder had drawn from his pocket was a small hatchet,
and he was advancing with it toward the Humming-Bird!

"He's going to destroy my aeroplane!" gasped Tom, and he raised his
revolver to fire.

He did not intend to shoot at the man, but only to fire to scare him,
and thus hasten the coming of Mr. Jackson and the colored man. But
there was no need of this, for an instant later the two came running up
silently, Eradicate with a big club.

"Whar am he?" he asked in a hoarse whisper. "Let me git at him, Massa
Tom!"

"Hush!" exclaimed the young inventor. "We have no time to lose! He's in
there, getting ready to chop my aeroplane to bits! Go to the back door,
Rad, and if he tries to come out don't let him get away."

"I won't!" declared the colored man emphatically, and he shook his club
suggestively.

"Come on! We'll go in the front door," whispered Tom to the engineer.
"I have the key. We'll catch him red-handed, and hand him over to the
police."

Waiting a few seconds, to enable Eradicate to get to his place, Tom and
the engineer stole softly toward the big double doors. Every moment the
youth expected to hear the crash of the hatchet on his prize machine.
He shivered in anticipation, but the blows did not fall.

Tom pushed open the door and stepped inside, followed by Mr. Jackson.
As they did so they saw the man standing in front of the Humming-Bird.
He again raised the little hatchet, which was like an Indian tomahawk,
and poised it for an instant over the delicate framework and planes of
the air craft. Then his arm began to descend.

"Stop!" yelled Tom, and at the same time he fired in the air.

The man turned as suddenly as though a bullet had struck him, and for a
moment Tom was afraid lest he had hit him by accident; but an instant
later the intruder grabbed up his flashlight, and holding it before
him, so that its rays shone full on Tom and Mr. Jackson, while it left
him in the shadow, sprang toward them, the hatchet still in his hand.

"Look out, Tom!" cried Mr. Jackson.

"Out of my way!" shouted the man.

Bravely Tom stood his ground. He wished now that he had a club instead
of his revolver. The would-be vandal was almost upon him. Mr. Jackson
clubbed his rifle and swung it at the fellow. The latter dodged, and
came straight at Tom.

"Look out!" yelled the engineer again, but it was too late. There was
the sound of a blow, and Tom went down like a log. Then the place was
in darkness, and the sound of footsteps in rapid flight could be heard
outside the shed.

The intruder, after wounding the young inventor, had made his escape.




Chapter Twelve

Miss Nestor Calls


"What's de mattah? Shall I come in? Am anybody hurted?" yelled
Eradicate Sampson as he pounded on the rear door of the aeroplane shed.
"Let me in, Massa Tom!"

"All right! Wait a minute! I'm coming!" called Mr. Jackson. He tried to
peer through the darkness, to where a huddled heap indicated the
presence of Tom. Then he thought of the electric lights, which were run
by a storage battery when the dynamo was shut down, and a moment later
the engineer had switched on the incandescents, filling the big shed
with radiance.

"Tom, are you badly hurt?" gasped Mr. Jackson.

There was no answer, for Tom was unconscious.

"Let me in! Let me git at dat robber wif mah club!" cried the colored
man eagerly.

Knowing that he would need help in carrying Tom to the house, Mr.
Jackson hurried to the back door. He had a key to it, and it was
quicker to open it than to send Eradicate away around the shed to the
front portals.

"Whar am he?" gasped the faithful darky, as he took a firmer grasp of
his club and looked around the place. "Let me git mah hands on him!
I'll feed him t' Boomerang, when I gits froo wif him!"

"He's gone," said the engineer. "Help me look after Tom. I'm afraid
he's badly hurt."

They hastened to the unconscious lad. On one side of his head was a bad
cut, which was bleeding freely.

"Oh! he's daid! I know he's daid!" wailed Eradicate.

"Not a bit of it. He isn't dead, but he may die, if we don't get him
into the house, and have a doctor here soon," said Mr. Jackson sternly.
"Catch hold of him, Rad, and, mind, don't carry on, and get excited,
and scare Mr. Swift. Just pretend it isn't very bad, or we'll have two
patients on our hands instead of only Tom."

They managed to get the youth into the house, and, contrary to their
fears, Mr. Swift was not nearly so nervous as they had expected. Calmly
he took charge of matters, and even telephoned for Dr. Gladby himself,
while Mr. Jackson and Eradicate undressed Tom and got him to bed. Mrs.
Baggert busied herself heating water and getting things in readiness
for the doctor, who had promised to come at once.

Tom was just regaining consciousness when the physician came in, having
driven over at top speed.

"What--what happened? Did the Humming-Bird fall?" asked Tom in a
whisper, putting his hand to his head.

"No, something fell on you, I guess," said the doctor, who had been
hurriedly told of the circumstances. "But don't worry, Tom. You'll be
all right in a few days. You got a bad cut on the head, but the skull
isn't fractured, I'm glad to say. Here, now, just drink this," and he
gave Tom some medicine he had mixed in a glass.

The cut was soon dressed, and Tom felt much better, though weak and a
trifle dizzy.

"Did he hit me with the hatchet?" he asked Mr. Jackson.

"I couldn't tell," was the engineer's reply, "it all happened so
quickly. In another instant I'd have bowled him over, instead of him
landing on you, but I just missed him. He either used the hatchet, or
some blunt instrument."

"Well, don't talk about it now," urged the doctor. "I want Tom to get
quiet and go to sleep. He'll be much better in the morning, but I must
forbid any aeroplane flights." And he shook his finger at Tom in
warning. "You'll have to lie quiet for several days," he added.

"All right," agreed the young inventor weakly, and then he dozed off,
for the physician had given him a quieting medicine.

"Haven't you any idea who it was?" asked Dr. Gladby of Mr. Jackson, as
he prepared to leave.

"Not the slightest. It was no one Tom or I had ever seen before. But
whoever it was, he intended to destroy the Humming-Bird, that was
evident!"

"The scoundrel! I'm glad you foiled him in time; but it's too bad about
Tom. However, we'll soon have him all right again."

"I knows who done it!" broke in Eradicate, who was a sort of privileged
character about the Swift home.

"Who?" asked Mr. Jackson.

"It were dat Andy Foger. Leastways, he send dat man heah t' make
mincemeat oh de Hummin'-Bird. I's positib 'bout dat, so I am!" And
Eradicate grinned triumphantly.

"Well, perhaps Andy did have a hand in it," admitted Mr. Swift, "but we
have no proof of it, I can't see what his object would be in wanting to
destroy Tom's new craft."

"Pure meanness. Afraid that Tom will beat him in the race," suggested
Mr. Jackson.

"It's too big a risk to take," went on the aged inventor. "I'm inclined
to think it might be one of the gang of men who made the diamonds in
the cave in the mountains. They might have sent a spy on East, and he
might try to damage the aeroplane to be revenged for what Tom and Mr.
Jenks did to them."

"It's possible," agreed the engineer. "Well, we'll wait until Tom can
talk, and we'll go over it with him."

"Not until he is stronger, though," stipulated the physician as he went
away. "Don't excite Tom for a few days."

The young inventor was much better the following day, and when Dr.
Gladby called he said Tom could sit up for a little while. Two days
later Tom was well enough to be talked to, and his father and Mr.
Jackson went over all the details of the matter. Mr. Damon, who had
returned home, came to see his friend as soon as he heard of his
plight, and was also a member of the consulting party.

"Bless my dictionary!" exclaimed the eccentric man. "I wish I had been
here to take a hand in it. But, Tom, do you believe it was one of the
diamond-making gang?"

"I hardly think so," was the reply. "They would take some other means
of revenge than by destroying my new aeroplane. I'm inclined to think
it was some one who is in with Andy Foger."

"Then we'll hire detectives, and locate him and them," declared Mr.
Damon, blessing several things in succession.

Tom, however, did not like that plan, and it was decided to do nothing
right away. In another few days Tom was able to be up, though he was
still a semi-invalid, not venturing out of the house.

It was one afternoon, when, rather tired of his confinement, he was
wishing he could resume work on his air craft, that Mrs. Baggert came
in, and said:

"Some one to see you, Tom."

"Is it Mr. Damon?"

"No, it's a lady. She--"

"Oh, Tom! How are you?" cried a girlish voice, and Mary Nestor walked
into the room, holding out both hands to the young inventor. Tom, with
a blush, arose hastily.

"No! no! Sit still!" commanded the girl. "Oh! I'm so sorry to hear
about your accident! In fact, I only heard this morning. We've been
away, mamma and I, and we just got back. Tell me all about it, that is,
if you feel able. But don't exert yourself. Oh! I wish I had hold of
that man!"

And Miss Nestor clenched her two pretty little hands and set her white,
even teeth grimly together, as though she would do most desperate
things indeed.

"I wish you did, too!" exclaimed Tom. "That is, so you could hold him
until I had a chance at him. But I'm all right now. It was very good of
you to call. How are you, and how are your folks?"

"Very well. But I came to hear about you. Tell me," and she looked
anxiously at Tom, while Mrs. Baggert discreetly withdrew to the
adjoining room, and made a great noise, rattling papers and moving
chairs about.

Thereupon Tom told what had happened, while Mary Nestor listened
interestedly and with expressions of fear at times.

"But if Andy had anything to do with it," concluded Tom, "I can't
understand what his object is. Andy is acting very strangely lately. We
can't locate him, nor find out where he is building his airship. That's
what I want to know; but Mr. Damon and I, after a lot of trouble, only
found his aeroplane shed empty."

"And you want to find out where Andy Foger is building his aeroplane
which he has entered in the big race?" asked Miss Nestor.

"That's what I'd like to know," declared Tom earnestly. "Only we can't
seem to do it. No one knows."

"Why don't you write to Mr. Sharp, or some one of the aviation meet
committee?" asked the girl simply. "They would know, for you say Andy
made his formal entry with them, and the rules require him to tell from
what city and State he will enter his craft. Write to the committee,
Tom."

For a moment the young inventor stared at her. Then he banged his fist
down on the arm of his chair.

"By Jove, Mary! That's the very thing!" he cried. "I wonder why I never
thought of that, instead of fiddling around in disguises, and things
like that? I wonder why I never thought of that plan?"

"Perhaps because it was so simple," she answered, with a pretty blush.

"I guess that's it," agreed Tom. "It takes a woman to jump across a
bridge to a conclusion every time. I'll write to Mr. Sharp at once."




Chapter Thirteen

A Clash with Andy


Tom lost no time in writing to Mr. Sharp. He wondered more and more at
his own neglect in not before having asked the balloonist, when the
latter was in Shopton, where Andy was building his aeroplane. But, as
it developed later, Mr. Sharp did not know at that time.

While waiting for a reply to his letter, Tom busied himself about his
own craft, making several changes he had decided on. He also began to
paint and decorate it, for he wanted to have the Humming-Bird present a
neat appearance when she was officially entered in the great race.

Miss Nestor called on Tom again, and Mr. Damon was a frequent visitor.
He agreed to accompany Tom to the aviation park when it was time for
the race, and also to be a passenger in the ten-thousand-dollar contest.

"It must be perfectly wonderful to fly through the air," said Miss
Nestor one day, when Tom and Mr. Damon had the Humming-Bird out on the
testing ground, trying the engine, which had been keyed up to a higher
pitch of speed. "I consider it perfectly marvelous, and I can't imagine
how it must seem to skim along that way."

"Come and try it," urged Tom suddenly. "There's not a bit of danger.
Really there isn't."

"Oh! I'd never dare do it!" replied the girl, with a gasp. "That
machine is too swift by name and swift by nature for me."

"Why don't you take Miss Nestor on a grass-cutting flight, Tom?"
suggested Mr. Damon. "Bless my lawn mower! but she wouldn't be
frightened at that."

"Grass cutting?" repeated the girl. "What in the world does that mean?"

"It means skimming along a few feet up in the air," answered the young
inventor, who had now fully recovered from the effects of the blow
given him by the midnight intruder. In spite of many inquiries, no
clues to his identity had been obtained.

"How high do you go when you 'cut grass,' as you call it?" asked Miss
Nestor, and Tom thought he detected a note of eager curiosity in her
voice.

"Not high at all," he said. "In fact, sometimes I do cut off the tops
of tall daisies. Come, Mary! Won't you try that? I know you'll like it,
and when you've been over the lawn a few times you'll be ready for a
high flight. Come! there's no danger."

"I--I almost believe I will," she said hesitatingly. "Will you take me
down when I want to come?"

"Of course," said Tom. "Get in, and we'll start."

The Humming-Bird was all ready for a trial flight, and Tom was glad of
the chance to test it, especially with such a pretty passenger as was
Miss Nestor.

"Bless my shoelaces!" cried Mr. Damon. "I can see where I am going to
be cut out, Tom Swift. I'll not get many more rides with you now that
Miss Nestor is taking to aeroplaning, you young rascal!" And he
playfully shook his finger at Tom.

"Oh, I don't expect to get enthusiastic over it," said Miss Nestor,
who, now that she had taken her place in one of the small seats under
the engine, appeared as if she would be glad of the chance to change
her mind. But she did not.

"Now, if you take me more than five feet up in the air, I'll never
speak to you again, Tom Swift!" she exclaimed.

"Five feet it shall be, unless you yourself ask to go higher," was the
youth's reply, as he winked at Mr. Damon. Well he knew the fascination
of aeroplaning, and he was almost sure of what would happen. "You can
take a tape measure along, and see for yourself," he added to his fair
passenger. "The barograph will hardly register such a little height."

"Well, it's as high as I want to go," said the girl. "Oh!" with a
scream, as Tom started the propeller. "Are we going?"

"In a moment," was his reply. He took his seat beside the girl. The
motor was speeded up until it sounded like the roar of the ocean surf
in a storm.

"Let her go!" cried Tom to Mr. Damon and Mr. Jackson, who were holding
back the Humming-Bird. They gave her a slight shove to over-come the
inertia, and the trim little craft darted across the ground at every
increasing speed.

Miss Nestor caught her breath with a gasp, glanced at Tom, and noted
how cool he was, and then her frantic grip of the uprights slightly
relaxed.

"We'll go up a little way in a minute!" shouted Tom in her ear as they
were speeding over the level ground.

He pulled a lever slightly, and the Humming-Bird rose a little in the
air, but only for a short distance, not more than five feet, and Tom
held her there, though he had to run the engine at a greater speed than
would have been the case had he been in the sustaining upper currents.
It was as if the Humming-Bird resented being held so closely to the
earth.

Around in a big circle, back and forth went the craft, at no time being
more than seven feet from the ground. Tom glanced at Miss Nestor. Her
cheeks were unusually red, and there was a bright sparkle in her eyes.

"It's glorious!" she cried. "Do you--do you think there's any danger in
going higher? I believe I'd like to go up a bit."

"I knew it!" cried Tom. "Up we go!" And he pulled the wind-bending
plane lever toward him. Upward shot the craft, as if alive.

"Oh!" gasped Mary.

"Sit still! It's all right!" commanded Tom.

"It's glorious; glorious!" she cried. "I'm not a bit afraid now!"

"I knew you wouldn't be," declared the young inventor, who had
calculated on the fascination which the motion through the air,
untrammeled and free, always produces. "Shall we go higher?"

"Yes!" cried Miss Nestor, and she gazed fearlessly down at the earth,
which was falling away from beneath their feet. She was in the grip of
the air, and it was a new and wonderful sensation.

Tom went up to a considerable distance, for, once a person loses his
first fright, one hundred feet or one thousand feet elevation makes
little difference to him. It was this way with Miss Nestor.

Now, indeed, could Tom demonstrate to her some of the fine points of
navigation in the upper currents, and though he did no risky "stunts,"
he showed the girl what it means to do an ascending spiral, how to cut
corners, how to twist around in the figure eight, and do other things.
Tom did not try for the great speed of which he knew his craft was
capable, for he knew there was some risk with Miss Nestor aboard. But
he did nearly everything else, and when he sent the Humming-Bird down
he had made another convert and devotee to the royal sport of
aeroplaning.

"Oh! I never would have dared believe I could do it!" exclaimed the girl,
as with flushed cheeks and dancing eyes she dismounted from the seat.
"Mamma and papa will never believe I did it!"

"Bring them over, and I'll take them for a flight," said Tom, with a
laugh, as Mary departed.

Tom received an answer to his letter to Mr. Sharp that night.

"Andy Foger's entry blank states," wrote the balloonist, "that he is
constructing his aeroplane in the village of Hampton, which is about
fifty miles from your place. If there is anything further I can do for
you, Tom, let me know. I will see you at the meet. Hope you win the
prize."

"In Hampton, eh?" mused Tom. "So that's where Andy has been keeping
himself all this while. His uncle lives there, and that's the reason
for it. He wanted to keep it a secret from me, so he could use my
stolen plans for his craft. But he shan't do it! I'll go to Hampton!"

"And I'll go with you!" declared Mr. Damon, who was with Tom when he
got the note from the balloonist. "We'll get to the bottom of this
mystery after a while, Tom."

Delaying a few days, to make the final changes in his aeroplane, Tom
and Mr. Damon departed for Hampton one morning. They thought first of
going in the Butterfly, but as they wanted to keep their mission as
secret as possible, they decided to go by train, and arrive in the town
quietly and unostentatiously. They got to Hampton late that afternoon.

"What's the first thing to be done?" asked Mr. Damon as they walked up
from the station, where they were almost the only persons who alighted
from the train.

"Go to the hotel," decided Tom. "There's only one, I was told, so
there's not much choice."

Hampton was a quiet little country town of about five thousand
inhabitants, and Tom soon learned the address of Mr. Bentley, Andy's
uncle, from the hotel clerk.

"What business is Mr. Bentley in?" asked Tom, for he wanted to learn
all he could without inquiring of persons who might question his
motives.

"Oh, he's retired," said the clerk. "He lives on the interest of his
money. But of late he's been erecting some sort of a building on his
back lot, like a big shed, and folks are sort of wondering what he's
doing in it. Keeps mighty secret about it. He's got a young fellow
helping him."

"Has he got red hair?" asked Tom, while his heart beat strangely fast.

"Who? Mr. Bentley? No. His hair's black."

"I mean the young fellow."

"Oh! his? Yes, his is red. He's a nephew, or some relation to Mr.
Bentley. I did hear his name, but I've forgotten it. Sandy, or Andy, or
some such name as that."

This was near enough for Tom and Mr. Damon, and they did not want to
risk asking any more questions. They turned away to go to their rooms,
as the clerk was busy answering inquiries from some other guests. A
little later, supper was served, and Tom, having finished, whispered to
Mr. Damon to join him upstairs as soon as he was through.

"What are you going to do?" asked the eccentric man.

"We're going out and have a look at this new shed by moonlight,"
decided Tom. "I want to see what it's like, and, if possible, I want to
get a peep inside. I'll soon be able to tell whether or not Andy is
using my stolen plans."

"All right. I'm with you. Bless my bill of fare! But we seem to be
doing a lot of mysterious work of late."

"Yes," agreed Tom. "But if you have to bless anything to-night, Mr.
Damon, please whisper it. Andy, or some of his friends, may be about
the shed, and as soon as they hear one of your blessings they'll know
who's coming."

"Oh, I'll be careful," promised Mr. Damon.

"Andy will find out, sooner or later, that we are in town," went on
Tom, "but we may be able to learn to-night what we want to know, and
then we can tell how to act."

A little later, as if they were merely strolling about, Mr. Damon and
Tom headed for Mr. Bentley's place, which was on the outskirts of the
town. There was a full moon, and the night was just right for the kind
of observation Tom wanted to make. There were few persons abroad, and
the young inventor thought he would have no one spying on him.

They located the big house of Andy's uncle without trouble. Going down
a side street, they had a glimpse of a shed, built of new boards,
standing in the middle of a large lot. About the structure was a new,
high wooden fence, but as Tom and his friend passed along it they saw
that a gate in it was open.

"I'm going in!" whispered Tom.

"Will it be safe?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I don't care whether it will be or not. I've got to know what Andy is
doing. Come on! We'll take a chance!"

Cautiously they entered the enclosure. The big shed was dark, and stood
out conspicuously in the moonlight.

"There doesn't seem to be any one here," whispered Tom. "I wonder if we
could get a look in the window?"

"It's worth trying, anyhow," agreed Mr. Damon. "I'm with you, Tom."

They drew nearer to the shed. Suddenly Tom stepped on a stick, which
broke with a sharp report.

"Bless my spectacles!" cried Mr. Damon, half aloud.

There was silence for a moment, and then a voice cried out:

"Who's there? Hold on! Don't come any farther! It's dangerous!"

Tom and Mr. Damon stood still, and from behind the shed stepped Andy
Foger and a man.

"Oh! it's you, is it, Tom Swift?" exclaimed the red-haired bully. "I
thought you'd come sneaking around. Come on, Jake! We'll make them wish
they'd stayed home!" And Andy made a rush for Tom.




Chapter Fourteen

The Great Test


"Bless my gizzard!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, who hardly knew what to do.
"We'd better be getting out of here, Tom!"

"Not much!" exclaimed the young inventor. "I never ran from Andy Foger
yet, and I'm not going to begin now."

He assumed an attitude of defense, and stood calmly awaiting the
onslaught of the bully; but Andy knew better than to come to a personal
argument with Tom, and so the red-haired lad halted some paces off. The
man, who had followed young Foger, also stopped.

"What do you want around here, Tom Swift?" demanded Andy.

"You know very well what I want," said the young inventor, calmly. "I
want to know what you did with the aeroplane plans you took from my
house."

"I never took any!" declared Andy vigorously.

"Well, there's no use discussing that," went on Tom. "What I came here
to find out, and I don't mind telling you, is whether or not you are
building a monoplane to compete against me, and building it on a model
invented by me; and what's more, Andy Foger, I intend to find this out,
too!"

Tom started toward the big shed, which loomed up in the moonlight.

"Stand back!" cried Andy, getting in Tom's way. "I can build any kind
of an aeroplane I like, and you can't stop me!"

"We'll see about that," declared the young inventor, as he kept on.
"I'm not going to allow my plans to be stolen, and a monoplane made
after them, and do nothing about it."

"You keep away!" snarled Andy, and he grabbed Tom by the shoulder and
struck him a blow in the chest. He must have been very much excited, or
otherwise he never would have come to hostilities this way with Tom,
whom he well knew could easily beat him.

The blow, together with the many things he had suffered at Andy's
hands, was too much for our hero. He drew back his fist, and a moment
later Andy Foger was stretched out on the grass. He lay there for a
moment, and then rose up slowly to his knees, his face distorted with
rage.

"You--you hit me!" he snarled.

"Not until you hit first," said Tom calmly.

"Bless my punching bag! That's so!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.

"You'll suffer for this!" whined Andy, getting to his feet, but taking
care to retreat from Tom, who stood ready for him. "I'll get square
with you for this! Jake, come on, and we'll get our guns!"

Andy turned and hurried back toward the shed, followed by the
evil-looking man, who had apparently been undecided whether to attack
Mr. Damon or Tom. Now the bully and his companion were in full retreat.

"We'll get our guns, and then we'll see whether they'll want to stay
where they're not wanted!" went on Andy, threateningly.

"Bless my powderhorn! What had we better do?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I guess we'd better go back," said Tom calmly. "Not that I'm afraid of
Andy. His talk about guns is all bluff; but I don't want to get into
any more of a row, and he is just ugly and reckless enough to make
trouble.  I'm afraid we can't learn what we came to find out, though
I'm more convinced than ever that Andy is using my plans to make his
aeroplane."

"But what can you do?"

"I'll see Mr. Sharp, and send a protest to the aviation committee. I'll
refuse to enter if Andy flies in a model of my Humming-Bird, and I'll
try to prevent him from using it after he gets it on the ground. That
is all I can do, it seems, lacking positive information. Come on, Mr.
Damon. Let's get back to our hotel, and we'll start for home in the
morning."

"I have a plan," whispered the odd man.

"What is it?" asked Tom, narrowly watching for the reappearance of Andy
and the man.

"I'll stay here until they come, then I'll pretend to run away. They'll
chase after me, and get all excited, and you can go up and look in the
shed windows. Then you can join me later. How's that?"

"Too risky. They might fire at you by mistake. No. We'll both go. I've
found out more than enough to confirm my suspicions."

They turned out of the lot which contained the shed, and walked toward
the road, just as Andy and his crony came back.

"Huh! You'd better go!" taunted the bully.

Tom had a bitter feeling in his heart. It seemed as if he was defeated,
and he did not like to retreat before Andy.

"You'd better not come back here again, either," went on Andy.

Tom and Mr. Damon did not reply, but kept on in silence. They returned
to Shopton the next day.

"Well," remarked Tom, when he had gone out to look at his Humming-Bird,
"I know one thing. Andy Foger may build a machine something like this,
but I don't believe he can put in all the improvements I have, and
certainly he can't equal that engine; eh, dad?"

"I hope not, Tom," replied his father, who seemed to be much improved
in health.

"When are you going to try for speed?" asked Mr. Damon.

"To-morrow, if I can get it tuned up enough," replied Tom, "and I think
I can. Yes, we'll have the great test to-morrow, and then I'll know
whether I really have a chance for that ten thousand dollars."

Never before had Tom been so exacting in his requirements of his air
craft as when, the next day, the Humming-Bird was wheeled out to the
flight ground, and gotten ready for the test. The young inventor went
over every bolt, brace, stay, guy wire and upright. He examined every
square inch of the wings, the tips, planes and rudders. The levers, the
steering wheel, the automatic equilibrium attachments and the balancing
weights were looked at again and again.

As for the engine, had it been a delicate watch, Tom could not have
scrutinized each valve, wheel, cam and spur gear more carefully. Then
the gasoline tank was filled, the magneto was looked after, the oil
reservoirs were cleaned out and freshly filled, and finally the lad
remarked:

"Well, I guess I'm ready. Come along, Mr. Damon."

"Am I going with you in the test?"

"Surely. I've been counting on you. If you're to be with me in the
race, you want to get a sample of what we can do. Take your place. Mr.
Jackson, are you ready to time us?"

"All ready, Tom."

"And, dad, do you feel well enough to check back Mr. Jackson's results?
I don't want any errors."

"Oh, yes, Tom. I can do it."

"Very well, then. Now this is my plan. I'm going to mount upward on an
easy slant, and put her through a few stunts first, to warm up, and see
that everything is all right. Then, when I give the signal, by dropping
this small white ball, that means I'm ready for you to start to time
me.  Then I'll begin to try for the record. I'll go about the course in
a big ellipse, and--well, we'll see what happens."

While Mr. Damon was in his seat the young inventor started the
propeller, and noted the thrust developed. It was satisfactory, as
measured on the scale, and then Tom took his place.

"Let her go!" he cried to Mr. Jackson and Eradicate, after he had
listened to the song of the motor for a moment. The Humming-Bird flew
across the course, and a moment later mounted into the air.

Tom quickly took her up to about two thousand feet, and there, finding
the conditions to his liking, he began a few evolutions designed to
severely test the craft's stability, and to learn whether the engine
was working properly.

"How about it?" asked Mr. Damon anxiously.

"All right!" shouted Tom in his ear, for the motor was making a great
racket. "I guess we'll make the trial next time we come around. Get
ready to drop the signal ball."

Tom slowly brought the aeroplane around in a graceful curve. He sighted
down, and saw the first tall white pole that marked the beginning of
the course.

"Drop!" he called to Mr. Damon.

The white rubber ball went to the earth like a shot. Mr. Jackson and
Mr. Swift saw it, and started their timing-watches. Tom opened the
throttle and advanced the spark. The great test was on!

The Humming-Bird trembled and throbbed with the awful speed of the
motor, like a thing alive. She seemed to rush forward as an eagle
dropping down from a dizzy height upon some hapless prey.

"Faster yet!" murmured Tom. "We must go faster yet!"

The motor was warming up. Streaks of fire came from it. The exhaust of
the explosions was a continuous roar. Faster and faster flew the frail
craft.

Around and around the air course she circled. The wind appeared to be
rushing beneath the planes and rudders with the velocity of a
hurricane.  Had it not been for the face protectors they wore, Tom and
Mr. Damon could not have breathed. For ten minutes this fearful speed
was kept up.  Then Tom, knowing he had run the motor to the limit,
slowed it down.  Next he shut it off completely, and prepared to
volplane back to earth.  The silence after the terrific racket was
almost startling. For a moment neither of the aviators spoke. Then Mr.
Damon said:

"Do you think you did it, Tom?"

"I don't know. We'll soon find out. They'll have the record." And he
motioned toward the earth, which they were rapidly nearing.




Chapter Fifteen

A Noise in the Night


"Well, did I make it? Make any kind of a record?" asked Tom eagerly, as
he brought the trim little craft to a stop, after it had rolled along
the ground on the bicycle wheels.

"What do you think you did?" asked Mr. Jackson, who had been busy
figuring on a slip of paper.

"Did I get her up to ninety miles an hour?" inquired Tom eagerly. "If I
did, I know when the motor wears down a bit smoother that I can make
her hit a hundred in the race, easily. Did I touch ninety, Mr. Jackson?"

"Better than that, Tom! Better than that!" cried his father.

"Yes," joined in Mr. Jackson. "Allowing for the difference in our
watches, Tom, your father and I figure that you did the course at the
rate of one hundred and twelve miles an hour!"

"One hundred and twelve!" gasped the young inventor, hardly able to
believe it.

"I made it a hundred and fifteen," said Mr. Swift, who was almost as
pleased as was his son, "and Mr. Jackson made it one hundred and
eleven; so we split the difference, so to speak. You certainly have a
sky racer, Tom, my boy!"

"And I'll need it, too, dad, if I'm to compete with Andy Foger, who may
have a machine almost like mine."

"But I thought you were going to object to him if he has," said Mr.
Damon, who had hardly recovered from the speedy flight through space.

"Well, I was just providing for a contingency, in case my protest was
overruled," remarked Tom. "But I'm glad the Humming-Bird did so well on
her first trial. I know she'll do better the more I run her. Now we'll
get her back in her 'nest,' and I'll look her over, when she cools
down, and see if anything has worked loose."

But the trim little craft needed only slight adjustments after her
tryout, for Tom had built her to stand up under a terrific strain.

"We'll soon be in shape for the big race," he announced, "and when I
bring home that ten thousand dollars I'm going to abandon this
sky-scraping business, except for occasional trips."

"What will you do to occupy your mind?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Oh, I'm going to travel," announced Tom. "Then there's my new electric
rifle, which I have not perfected yet. I'll work on that after I win
the big race."

For several days after the first real trial of his sky racer Tom was
busy going over the Humming-Bird, making slight changes here and there.
He was the sort of a lad who was satisfied with nothing short of the
best, and though neither his father nor Mr. Jackson could see where
there was room for improvement, Tom was so exacting that he sat up for
several nights to perfect such little details as a better grip for the
steering-lever, a quicker way of making the automatic equilibriumizer
take its position, or an improved transmitter for the wireless
apparatus.

That was a part of his monoplane of which Tom was justly proud, for
though many aeroplanes to-day are equipped with the sending device, few
can receive wireless messages in mid-air. But Tom had seen the
advantage of this while making a trip in the ill-fated Red Cloud to the
cave of the diamond makers, and he determined to have his new craft
thus provided against emergencies. The wireless outfit of the
Humming-Bird was a marvel of compactness.

Thus the days passed, with Tom very busy; so busy, in fact, that he
hardly had time to call on Miss Nestor. As for Andy Foger, he heard no
more from him, and the bully was not seen around Shopton. Tom concluded
that he was at his uncle's place, working on his racing craft.

The young inventor sent a formal protest to the aviation committee, to
be used in the event of Andy entering a craft which infringed on the
Humming-Bird, and received word from Mr. Sharp that the interests of
the young inventor would be protected. This satisfied Tom.

Still, at times, he could not help wondering how the first plans had so
mysteriously disappeared, and he would have given a good deal to know
just how Andy got possession of them, and how he knew enough to use
them.

"He, or some one whom he hired, must have gotten into our house mighty
quickly that day," mused Tom, "and then skipped out while dad fell into
a little doze. It was a mighty queer thing, but it's lucky it was no
worse."

The time was approaching for the big aviation meet. Tom's craft was in
readiness, and had been given several other trials, developing more
speed each time. Additional locks were put on the doors of the shed,
and more burglar-alarm wires were strung, so that it was almost a
physical impossibility to get into the Humming-Bird's "nest" without
arousing some one in the Swift household.

"And if they do, I guess we'll be ready for them," said Tom grimly. He
had been unable to find out who it was that had attempted once before
to damage the monoplane, but he suspected it was the ill-favored man
who was working with Andy.

As for Mr. Swift, at times he seemed quite well, and again he required
the services of a physician.

"You will have to be very careful of your father, Tom," said Dr.
Gladby.  "Any sudden shock or excitement may aggravate his malady, and
in that case a serious operation will be necessary."

"Oh, we'll take good care of him," said the lad; but he could not help
worrying, though he tried not to let his father see the strain which he
was under.

It was some days after this, and lacking about a week until the meet
was to open, when a peculiar thing happened. Tom had given his
Humming-Bird a tryout one day, and had then begun to make arrangements
for taking it apart and shipping it to Eagle Park. For he would not fly
to the meet in it, for fear of some accident. So big cases had been
provided.

"I'll take it apart in the morning," decided Tom, as he went to his
room, after seeing to the burglar alarm, "and ship her off. Then Mr.
Damon and I will go there, set her up, and get ready to win the race."

Tom had opened all the windows in his room, for it was very warm. In
fact it was so warm that sleep was almost out of the question, and he
got up to sit near the windows in the hope of feeling a breeze.

There it was more comfortable, and he was just dozing off, and
beginning to think of getting back into bed, when he was aware of a
peculiar sound in the air overhead.

"I wonder if that's a heavy wind starting up?" he mused. "Good luck, if
it is! We need it." The noise increased, sounding more and more like
wind, but Tom, looking out into the night, saw the leaves of the trees
barely moving.

"If that's a breeze, it's taking its own time getting here," he went on.

The sound came nearer, and then Tom knew that it was not the noise of
the wind in the trees. It was more like a roaring and rumbling.

"Can it be distant thunder?" Tom asked himself. "There is no sign of a
storm." Once more he looked from the window. The night was calm and
clear--the trees as still as if they were painted.

The sound was even more plain now, and Tom, who had sharp ears, at once
decided that it was just over the house--directly overhead. An instant
later he knew what it was.

"The motor of an aeroplane, or a dirigible balloon!" he exclaimed.
"Some one is flying overhead!"

For an instant he feared lest the shed had been broken into, and his
Humming-Bird taken, but a glance toward the place seemed to show that
it was all right.

Then Tom hastily made his way to where a flight of stairs led to a
little enclosed observatory on the roof.

"I'm going to see what sort of a craft it is making that noise," he
said.

As he opened the trap door, and stepped out into the little observatory
the sound was so plain as to startle him. He looked up quickly, and,
directly overhead he saw a curious sight.

For, flying so low as to almost brush the lightning rod on the chimney
of the Swift home, was a small aeroplane, and, as Tom looked up, he saw
in a light that gleamed from it, two figures looking down on him.




Chapter Sixteen

A Mysterious Fire


For a few moments Tom did not know what to think. Not that the sight of
aeroplanes in flight were any novelty to him, but to see one flying
over his house in the dead of night was a little out of the ordinary.
Then, as he realized that night-flights were becoming more common, Tom
tried to make out the details of the craft.

"I wish I had brought the night glasses with me," he said aloud.

"Here they are," spoke a voice at his side, and so suddenly that Tom
was startled. He looked down, and saw Mr. Jackson standing beside him.

"Did you hear the noise, too?" the lad asked the engineer.

"Yes. It woke me up. Then I heard you moving around, and I heard you
come up here. I thought maybe it was a flight of meteors you'd come to
see, and I knew the glasses would be handy, so I stopped for them. Take
a look, Tom. It's an aeroplane; isn't it?"

"Yes, and not moving very fast, either. They seem to be circling around
here."

The young inventor was peering through the binoculars, and, as soon as
he had the mysterious craft in focus, he cried:

"Look, Mr. Jackson, it's a new kind of monoplane. I never saw one like
it before. I wonder who could have invented that? It's something like a
Santos-Dumont and a Bleriot, with some features of Cornu's Helicopter.
That's a queer machine."

"It certainly is," agreed the engineer, who was now sighting through
the glasses. In spite of the darkness the binoculars brought out the
peculiarities of the aeroplane with considerable distinctness.

"Can you make out who are in it?" asked Tom.

"No," answered Mr. Jackson. "You try."

But Tom had no better luck. There were two persons in the odd machine,
which was slowly flying along, moving in a great circle, with the Swift
house for its center.

"I wonder why they're hanging around here?" asked Tom, suspiciously.

"Perhaps they want to talk to you," suggested Mr. Jackson. "They may be
fellow inventors--perhaps one of them is that Philadelphia man who had
the Whizzer."

"No," replied the lad. "He would have sent me word if he intended
calling on me. Those are strangers, I think. There they are, coming
back again."

The mysterious aeroplane was once more circling toward the watchers on
the roof. There was a movement on the steps, near which Tom was
standing, and his father came up.

"Is anything the matter?" he asked anxiously.

"Only a queer craft circling around up here," was the reply. "Come and
see, dad."

Mr. Swift ascended to the roof. The aeroplane was higher now, and those
in her could not so easily be made out. Tom felt a vague sense of fear,
as though he was being watched by the evil eyes of his enemies. More
than once he looked over to the shed where his craft was housed, as
though some danger might threaten it. But the shed of the Humming-Bird
showed no signs of invaders.

Suddenly the mysterious aeroplane increased its speed. It circled about
more quickly, and shot upward, as though to show the watchers of what
it was capable. Then, with a quick swoop it darted downward, straight
for the building where Tom's newest invention was housed.

"Look out! They'll hit something!" cried the young inventor, as though
those in the aeroplane could hear him.

Then, just as though they had heeded his warning, the pilots of the
mysterious craft shot her upward, after she had hovered for an instant
over the big shed.

"That was a queer move," said Tom. "It looked as if they lost control
of her for a moment."

"And they dropped something!" cried Mr. Jackson. "Look! something fell
from the aeroplane on the roof of the shed."

"Some tool, likely," spoke Tom. "I'll get it in the morning, and see
what sort of instruments they carry. I'd like to examine that machine,
though."

The queer aeroplane was now shooting off in the darkness and Tom
followed it with the glasses, wondering what its construction could be
like. He was to have another sight of it sooner than he expected.

"Well, we may as well get back to bed," said Mr. Jackson. "I'm tired,
and we've got lots to do to-morrow."

"Yes," agreed Tom. "It's cooler now. Come on, dad."

Tom fell into a light doze. He thought afterward he could not have
slept more than half an hour when he heard a commotion out in the yard.
For an instant he could not tell what it was, and then, as he grew
wider awake he knew that it was the shouting of Eradicate Sampson, and
the braying of Boomerang.

But what was Eradicate shouting?

"Fire! Fire! Fire!"

Tom leaped to his window.

"Wake up, Massa Tom! Wake up! De areoplane shed am on fire, an' de
Humming-Bird will burn up! Hurry! Hurry!"

Tom looked out. Flames were shooting up from the roof of the shed where
his precious craft was kept.




Chapter Seventeen

Mr. Swift is Worse


Almost before the echoes of Eradicate's direful warning cry had died
away, Tom was on his way out of the house, pausing only long enough to
slip on a pair of shoes and his trousers. There was but one thought in
his mind. If he could get the Humming-Bird safely out he would not care
if the shed did burn, even though it contained many valuable tools and
appliances.

"We must save my new aeroplane!" thought Tom, desperately. "I've got to
save her!"

As he raced through the hall he caught up a portable chemical
fire-extinguisher. Tom saw his father's door open, and Mr. Swift looked
out.

"What is it?" he called anxiously.

"Fire!" answered the young inventor, almost before he thought of the
doctor's warning that Mr. Swift must not be excited. Tom wished he
could recall the word, but it was too late. Besides Eradicate, down in
the yard was shouting at the top of his voice:

"Fire! Fire! Fire!"

"Where, Tom?" gasped Mr. Swift, and his son thought the aged inventor
grew suddenly paler.

"Aeroplane shed," answered the lad. "But don't worry dad. It's only a
small blaze. We'll get it out. You stay here. We'll attend to it--Mr.
Jackson and Eradicate and I."

"No--I'm going to help!" exclaimed Mr. Swift, sturdily. "I'll be with
you, Tom. Go on!"

The lad rushed down to the yard, closely followed by the engineer, who
had caught up another extinguisher. Eradicate was rushing about, not
knowing what to do, but still keeping up his shouting.

"It's on de roof! De roof am all blazin'!" he yelled.

"Quit your noise, and get to work!" cried Tom. "Get out a ladder, Rad,
and raise it to the side of the shed. Then play this extinguisher on
the blaze. Mr. Jackson, you help me run the Humming-Bird out. After
she's safe we'll tackle the fire."

Tom cast a hurried look at the burning shed. The flames were shooting
high up from the roof, now, and eating their way down. As he rushed
toward the big doors, which he intended to open to enable him to run
out his sky racer, he was wondering how the fire came to start so high
up as the roof. He wondered if a meteor could have fallen and caused it.

As the doors, which were quickly unlocked by Tom, swung back, and as he
and the engineer started to go in, they were met by choking fumes as if
of some gas. They recoiled for the moment.

"What--what's that?" gasped Tom, coughing and sneezing.

"Some chemical--I--I don't know what kind," spluttered Mr. Jackson.
"Have you any carboys of acid in there Tom, that might have exploded by
the heat?"

"No; not a thing. Let's try again."

Once more they tried to go in, but were again driven back by the
distressing fumes. The fire was eating down, now. There was a hole
burned in the roof, and by the leaping tongues of flame Tom could see
his aeroplane. It was almost in the path of the blaze.

"We must get her out!" he shouted. "I'm going in!"

But it was impossible, and the daring young inventor nearly succumbed
to the choking odors. Mr. Jackson dragged him back.

"We can't go in!" he cried. "There has been some mysterious work here!
Those fumes were put here to keep us from saving the machine. This fire
has been set by some enemy! We can't go in!"

"But I am going!" declared Tom. "We'll try the back door."

They rushed to that, but again were driven out by the gases and vapors,
which were mingled with the smoke. Disheartened, yet with a wild desire
to do something to save his precious craft, Tom Swift drew back for a
moment.

As he did so he heard a hiss, as Eradicate turned the chemical stream
on the blaze. Tom looked up. The faithful colored man was on a ladder
near the burning roof, acting well his part as a fireman.

"That's the stuff!" cried Tom. "Come on, Mr. Jackson. Maybe if we use
the chemical extinguishers we can drive out those fumes!"

The engineer understood. He took up the extinguisher he had brought,
and Tom got a second one from a nearby shed. Then Mr. Swift came out
bearing another.

"You shouldn't have come, dad! We can attend to it!" cried Tom, fearing
for the effect of the excitement on his invalid parent.

"Oh, I couldn't stay there and see the shed burn. Are you getting it
under control? Why don't you run out the Humming-Bird?"

Tom did not mention the choking fumes. He passed up a full extinguisher
to Eradicate, who had used all the chemical in his. Then Tom got
another ladder, and soon three streams were being directed on the
flames. They had eaten, a pretty big hole in the roof, but the
chemicals were slowly telling on them.

As soon as he saw that Eradicate and Mr. Jackson could control the
blaze, Tom descended to the ground, and ran once more to the big doors.
He was determined to make another try to wheel out the aeroplane, for
he saw from above that the flames were now on the side wall, and might
reach the craft any minute. And it would not take much to inflict
serious damage on the sky racer.

"I'll get her, fumes or no fumes!" murmured Tom, grimly. And, whether
it was the effect of the chemical streams, or whether the choking odors
were dissipated through the hole in the roof was not manifested, but,
at any rate, Tom found that he could go in, though he coughed and
gasped for breath.

He wheeled the aeroplane outside, for the Humming-Bird was almost as
light as her namesake. A hurried glance by the gleam of the dying fire
assured Tom that his craft was not damaged beyond a slight scorching of
one of the wing tips.

"That was a narrow escape!" he murmured, as he wheeled the sky racer
far away, out of any danger from sparks. Then he went back to help
fight the fire, which was extinguished in about ten minutes more.

"It was a mighty queer blaze," said Mr. Jackson, "starting at the top
that way. I wonder what caused it?"

"We'll investigate in the morning," decided Tom. "Now, dad, you must
get back to your room." He turned to help his father in, but at that
moment Mr. Swift, who was trying to say something, fell over in a dead
faint.

"Quick! Help me carry him into the house!" cried Tom. "Then telephone
for Dr. Gladby, Mr. Jackson."

The physician looked grave when, half an hour later, he examined his
patient.

"Mr. Swift is very much worse," he said in a low voice. "The excitement
of the fire has aggravated his ailment. I would like another doctor to
see him, Tom."

"Another doctor?" Tom's voice showed his alarm.

"Yes, we must have a consultation. I think Dr. Kurtz will be a good one
to call in. I should like his opinion before I decide what course to
take."

"I'll send Eradicate for him at once," said the young inventor, and he
went to give the colored man his instructions, while his heart was
filled with a great fear for his father.




Chapter Eighteen

The Broken Bridge


Dr. Kurtz looked as grave as did Dr. Gladby when he had made an
examination of the patient. Mr. Swift was still in a semi-conscious
condition, hardly breathing as he rested on the bed where they had
placed him after the fire.

"Vell," said the German physician, after a long silence, "vot is your
obinion, my dear Gladby?"

"I think an operation is necessary."

"Yes, dot is so; but you know vot kind of an operation alone vill safe
him; eh, my dear Gladby?"

Dr. Gladby nodded.

"It will be a rare and delicate one," he said. "There is but one
surgeon I know of who can do it."

"You mean Herr Hendrix?" asked Dr. Kurtz.

"Yes, Dr. Edward Hendrix, of Kirkville. If he can be induced to come I
think there is a chance of saving Mr. Swift's life. I'll speak to Tom
about it."

The two physicians, who had been consulting together, summoned the
youth from another room, where, with Mrs. Baggert and Mr. Jackson he
had been anxiously awaiting the verdict.

"What is it?" the young inventor asked Dr. Gladby.

The medical man told him to what conclusion he and his colleague had
arrived, adding:

"We advise that Dr. Hendrix be sent for at once. But I need hardly tell
you, Tom, that he is a noted specialist, and his services are in great
demand. He is hard to get."

"I'll pay him any sum he asks!" burst out the youth. "I'll spend all my
fortune--and I have made considerable money of late--I'll spend every
cent to get my father well! Money need not stand in the way, Dr.
Gladby."

"I knew that, Tom. Still Dr. Hendrix is a very busy man, and it is hard
to induce him to come a long distance. It is over a hundred miles to
Kirkville, and it is an out-of-the-way place. I never could understand
why Dr. Hendrix settled there. But there he is, and if we want him he
will have to come from there. The worst of it is that there are few
trains, and only a single railroad line from there to Shopton."

"Then I'll telegraph," decided Tom. "I'll offer him his own price, and
ask him to rush here as soon as he can."

"You had better let Dr. Kurtz and me attend to that part of it,"
suggested the physician. "Dr. Hendrix would hardly come on the request
of some one whom he did not know. I'll prepare a telegram, briefly
explaining the case. It is the sort of an operation Dr. Hendrix is much
interested in, and I think he will come on that account, if for no
other reason. I'll write out the message, and you can have Eradicate
take it to the telegraph office."

"I'll take it myself!" exclaimed Tom, as he got ready to go out into
the night with the urgent request. "Is there any immediate danger for
my father?" he asked.

"No; not any immediate danger," replied Dr. Gladby. "But the operation
is imperative if he is to live. It is his one and only chance."

Tom thought only of his father as he hurried on through the night. Even
the prospect of the great race, so soon to take place, had no part in
his mind.

"I'll not race until I'm sure dad is going to get better," he decided.
With the message to the noted specialist Tom also sent one to Mr.
Damon, telling him the news, and asking him to come to Shopton. Tom
felt that the presence of the odd gentleman would help him, and Mr.
Damon, who first intended to stay on at the Swift home until he and Tom
departed for Eagle Park, had gone back to his own residence to attend
to some business Tom knew he would come in the morning, and Mr. Damon
did arrive on the first train.

"Bless my soul!" he exclaimed with ready sympathy, as he extended his
hand to Tom. "What's all this?" The young inventor told him, beginning
with the fire that had been the cause of the excitement which produced
the change in Mr. Swift.

"But I have great hopes that the specialist will be able to cure him,"
said Tom, for, with the coming of daylight, his courage had returned to
him. "Dr. Gladby and Dr. Kurtz depend a great deal on Dr. Hendrix," he
said.

"Yes, he certainly is a wonderful man. I have heard a great deal about
him. I have no doubt but what he will cure your father. But about the
fire? How did it start?"

"I don't know, but now that I have a few hours to spare before the
doctor can get here, I'm going to make an examination."

"Bless my penwiper, but I'll help you."

Tom went into the house, to inquire of Mrs. Baggert, for probably the
tenth time that morning, how his father was doing. Mr. Swift was still
in a semi-conscious condition, but he recognized Tom, when the youth
stood at his bedside.

"Don't worry about me, son," said the brave old inventor, as he took
Tom's hand. "I'll be all right. Go ahead and get ready for the race. I
want you to win!"

Tears came into Tom's eyes. Would his father be well enough to allow
him to take part in the big event? He feared not.

By daylight it was seen that quite a hole had been burned in the
aeroplane shed. Tom and Mr. Damon, accompanied by Mr. Jackson, walked
through the place.

"And you say the fire broke out right after you had seen the mysterious
airship hovering over the house?" asked the eccentric man.

"Well, not exactly after," answered Tom, "but within an hour or so. Why
do you ask?"

But Mr. Damon did not answer. Something on the floor of the shed, amid
a pile of blackened and charred pieces of wood, attracted his
attention.  He stooped over and picked it up.

"Is this yours?" he asked Tom.

"No. What is it?"

The object looked like a small iron ball, with a tube about half an
inch in diameter projecting slightly from it. Tom took it.

"Why, it looks like an infernal machine or a dynamite bomb," he said.
"I wonder where it came from? Guess I'd better drop it in a pail of
water.  Maybe Eradicate found it and brought it here. I never saw it
before. Mr. Jackson, please hand me that pail of water. We'll soak this
bomb."

"There is no need," said Mr. Damon, quietly. "It is harmless now. It
has done its work. It was that which set fire to your shed, and which
caused the stifling fumes."

"That?" cried Tom.

"Yes. This ball is hollow, and was filled with a chemical. It was
dropped on the roof, and, after a certain time, the plug in the tube
was eaten through, the chemicals ran out, set the roof ablaze, and,
dripping down inside spread the choking odors that nearly prevented you
from getting out your aeroplane."

"Are you sure of this?" asked the young inventor.

"Positive. I read about these bombs recently. A German invented them to
be used in attacking a besieged city in case of war."

"But how did this one get on my shed roof?" asked Tom.

"It was dropped there by the mysterious airship!" exclaimed the odd
man.  "That was why the aeroplane moved about over your place. Those in
it hoped that the fire would not break out until you were all asleep,
and that the shed and the Humming-Bird would be destroyed before you
came to the rescue. Some of your enemies are still after you, Tom."

"And it was Andy Foger, I'll wager!" he cried. "He was in that
aircraft!  Oh, I'll have a long score to settle with him!"

"Of course you can't be sure it was he," said Mr. Damon, "but I
wouldn't be a bit surprised but what it was. Andy is capable of such a
thing. He wanted to prevent you from taking part in the race."

"Well, he sha'n't!" cried Tom, and then he thought of his invalid
father. They made a further examination of the shed, and discovered
another empty bomb. Then Tom recalled having seen something drop from
the mysterious aeroplane as it passed over the shed.

"It was these bombs," he said. "We certainly had a narrow escape! Oh,
wait until I settle my score with Andy Foger!"

As there would be but little use for the aeroplane shed now, if Tom
sent his craft off to the meet, it was decided to repair it temporarily
only, until he returned.

Accordingly, a big tarpaulin was fastened over the hole in the roof.
Then Tom put a new wing tip on in place of the one that had been
scorched. He looked all over his sky racer, and decided that it was in
fit condition for the coming meet.

"I'll begin to take it apart for shipment, as soon as I hear from the
specialist that dad is well enough for me to go," he said.

It was a few hours after the discovery of the empty bomb that Tom saw
Dr. Gladby coming along. The physician was urging his horse to top
speed. Tom felt a vague fear in his heart.

"I've got a message from Dr. Hendrix, Tom," he said, as he stopped his
carriage, and approached the lad.

"When can he come?" asked the young inventor, eagerly.

"He can't get here, Tom."

"Can't get here! Why not?"

"Because the railroad bridge has collapsed, and there is no way to
come.  He can't make any other connections to get here in time--in time
to do your father any good, Tom. He has just sent me a telegram to that
effect. Dr. Hendrix can't get here, and..." Dr. Gladby paused.

"Do you mean that my father may die if the operation is not performed?"
asked Tom, in a low voice.

"Yes," was the answer.

"But can't Dr. Hendrix drive here in an auto?" asked the lad. "Surely
there must be some way of getting over the river, even if the railroad
bridge is down. Can't he cross in a boat and drive here?"

"He wouldn't be in time, Tom. Don't you understand, Dr. Hendrix must be
here within four hours, if he is to save your father's life. He never
could do it by driving or by coming on some other road, or in an auto.
He can't make the proper connections. There is no way."

"Yes, there is!" cried Tom, suddenly. "I know a way!"

"How?" asked Dr. Gladby, thrilled by Tom's ringing tones. "How can you
do it, Tom?"

"I'll go for Dr. Hendrix in my Humming-Bird."

"Going for him would do no good. He must be brought here."

"And so he shall be!" cried Tom. "I'll bring him here in my sky
racer--if he has the nerve to stand the journey, and I think he has!
I'll bring Dr. Hendrix here!" and Tom hurried away to prepare for the
thrilling trip.




Chapter Nineteen

A Nervy Specialist


There was little time to lose. Every moment of delay meant so much less
chance for the recovery of Mr. Swift. Even now the periods of
consciousness were becoming shorter and farther apart. He seemed to be
sinking.

Tom resolutely refused to think of the possibility of death, as he went
in to bid his parent good-by before starting off on his trip through
the air. Mr. Swift barely knew his son, and, with tears in his eyes,
though he bravely tried to keep them back, the young inventor went out
into the yard.

There stood the Humming-Bird, with Mr. Jackson, Mr. Damon and Eradicate
working over her, to get her in perfect trim for the race before her--a
race with death.

Fortunately there was little to be done to get the speedy craft ready.
Tom had accomplished most of what was necessary, while waiting for word
from Dr. Hendrix. Now about all that needed to be done was to see that
there was plenty of gasoline and oil in the reservoirs.

"I'll give you a note to Dr. Hendrix," said Mr. Gladby, as Tom was
fastening on his faceguard. "I--I trust you won't be disappointed, Tom.
I hope he will consent to return with you."

"He's got to come," said the young inventor, simply, as if that was all
there was to it.

"Do you think you can make the trip in time?" asked Mr. Damon. "It is a
little less than a hundred miles in an airline, but you have to go and
go back. Can the aeroplane do it?"

"I'd be ashamed of her if she couldn't," said Tom, with a grim
tightening of his lips. "She's just got to do it; that's all! But I
know she will," and he patted the big propeller and the motor's shining
cylinders as though the machine was a thing alive, like a horse or a
dog, who could understand him.

He climbed to his seat, the other one holding a bag of sand to maintain
a good balance.

"Start her," ordered Tom, and Mr. Jackson twisted the propeller. The
motor caught at once, and the air throbbed with the noise of the
explosions. Tom listened to the tune of the machinery. It sang true.

"Two thousand pounds thrust!" called the engineer, as he looked at the
scale.

"Let her go!" cried Tom, whose voice was hardly heard above the roar.
The trim little aeroplane scudded over the ground, gathering speed at
every revolution of the wheels. Then with a spring like that of some
great bird launching itself in flight, she left the earth, and took to
the air. Tom was off on his trip.

Those left behind sent up a cautious cheer, for they did not want to
disturb Mr. Swift. They waved their hands to the young inventor, and he
waved his in reply. Then he settled down for one of the swiftest
flights he had ever undertaken.

Tom ascended until he struck a favorable current of air. There was a
little wind blowing in the direction he wished to take, and that aided
him. But even against a powerful head-wind the Humming-Bird could make
progress.

The young inventor saw the ground slipping backward beneath him.
Carefully he watched the various indicators, and listened intently to
the sound of the cylinders' explosions. They came rapidly and
regularly.  The motor was working well.

Tom glanced at the barograph. It registered two thousand feet, and he
decided to keep at about that height, as it gave him a good view, and
he could see to steer, for a route had been hastily mapped out for him
by his friends.

Over cities, towns, villages, scattered farmhouses; across stretches of
forest; over rivers, above big stretches of open country he flew. Often
he could see eager crowds below, gazing up at him. But he paid no heed.
He was looking for a sight of a certain broad river, which was near
Kirkville. Then he knew he would be close to his goal.

He had speeded up the motor to the limit, and there was nothing to do
now, save to manage the planes, wing tips and rudders, and to see that
the gasoline and oil were properly fed to the machine.

Faster and faster went the Humming-Bird, but Tom's thoughts were even
faster. He was thinking of many things--of his father--of what he would
do if Mr. Swift died--of the mysterious airship--of the stolen
plans--of the fire in the shed--of the great race--and of Andy Foger.

He took little note of time, and when, in less than an hour he sighted
the river that told him he was near to Kirkville, he was rather
startled.

"You certainly did come right along, Humming-Bird!" he murmured proudly.

He descended several hundred feet, and, as he passed over the town, the
people of which grew wildly excited, he looked about for the house of
the noted specialist. He knew how to pick it out, for Dr. Gladby had
described it to him, and Tom was glad to see, as he came within view of
the residence, that it was surrounded by a large yard.

"I can land almost at his door," he said, and he did, volplaning to
earth with an ease born of long practice.

To say that Dr. Hendrix was astonished when Tom dropped in on him in
this manner, would not be exactly true. The specialist was not in the
habit of receiving calls from youths in aeroplanes, but the fact was,
that Dr. Hendrix was so absorbed in his work, and thought so constantly
about it, that it took a great deal to startle him out of his usual
calm.

"And so you came for me in your aeroplane?" he asked of Tom, as he
gazed at the trim little craft. It is doubtful if he really saw it,
however, as Dr. Hendrix was just then thinking of an operation he had
performed a few hours before. "I'm sorry you had your trip for
nothing," he went on.  "I'd like very much to come to your father, but
didn't you get my telegram, telling about the broken bridge? There is
no way for me to get to Shopton in time."

"Yes, there is!" cried Tom, eagerly.

"How?"

"The same way I came--in the aeroplane! Dr. Hendrix you must go back
with me! It's the only way to save my father's life. Come with me in
the Humming-Bird. It's perfectly safe. I can make the trip in less than
an hour. I can carry you and your instruments. Will you come? Won't you
come to save my father's life?" Tom was fairly pleading now.

"A trip in an aeroplane," mused Dr. Hendrix "I've never taken such a
thing. I--"

"Don't be afraid, there's really no danger," said Tom.

The physician seemed to reach a sudden conclusion. His eyes brightened.
He walked over and looked at the little Humming-Bird. For the time
being he forgot about his operations.

"I'll go with you!" he suddenly cried. "I'll go with you, Tom Swift! If
you've got the nerve, so have I! and if my science and skill can save
your father's life, he'll live to be an old man! Wait until I get my
bag and I'll be with you!"

Tom's heart gave a bound of hope.




Chapter Twenty

Just in Time


While Dr. Hendrix was in his office, getting ready to make the
thrilling trip through the air with Tom, the young inventor spent a few
minutes going over his monoplane. The wonderful little craft had made
her first big flight in excellent time, though Tom knew she could do
better the farther she was flown. Not a stay had started, not a guy
wire was loose.  The motor had not overheated, and every bearing was as
cool as though it had not taken part in thousands of revolutions.

"Oh, I can depend on you!" murmured Tom, as he looked to see that the
propeller was tight on the shaft. He gave the bearing a slight
adjustment to make sure of it.

He was at this when the specialist reappeared. Dr. Hendrix, after his
first show of excitement, when he had made his decision to accompany
Tom, had resumed his usual calm demeanor. Once again he was the grave
surgeon, with his mind on the case before him.

"Well, is my auto ready?" he asked absentmindedly. Then, as he saw the
little aeroplane, and Tom standing waiting beside it, he added: "Oh, I
forgot for the moment that I was to make a trip through the air,
instead of in my car. Well, Mr. Swift, are we all ready?"

"All ready," replied the young inventor. "We're going to make fast
time, Dr. Hendrix. You'd better put this on," and Tom extended a face
protector.

"What's it for?" The physician looked curiously at it.

"To keep the air from cutting your cheeks and lips. We are going to
travel a hundred miles an hour this trip."

"A hundred miles an hour!" Dr. Hendrix spoke as though he would like to
back out.

"Maybe more, if I can manage it," went on Tom, calmly, as he proceeded
to remove the bag of sand from the place where the surgeon was to sit.
Then he looked to the various equilibrium arrangements and the control
levers. He was so cool about it, taking it all for granted, as if
rising and flying through the air at a speed rivaling that of the
fastest birds, was a matter of no moment, that Dr. Hendrix was
impressed by the calm demeanor of the young inventor.

"Very well," said the surgeon with a shrug of his shoulders, "I guess
I'm game, Tom Swift."

The doctor took the seat Tom pointed out to him, with his bag of
instruments on his knees. He put on the face protector, and had, at the
suggestion of our hero, donned a heavy coat.

"For it's cold in the upper regions," said Tom.

Several servants in the physician's household had gathered to see him
depart in this novel fashion, and the chauffeur of the auto, in which
the specialist usually made his calls, was also there.

"I'll give you a hand," said the chauffeur to the young inventor. "I
was at an aviation meet once, and I know how it's done."

"Good," exclaimed Tom. "Then you can hold the machine, and shove when I
give the word."

Tom started the propeller himself, and quickly jumped into his seat.
The chauffeur held back the Humming-Bird until the young aviator had
speeded up the motor.

"Let go!" cried the youthful inventor, and the man gave the little
craft a shove. Across the rather uneven ground of the doctor's yard it
ran, straight for a big iron barrier.

"Look out! We'll be into the fence!" shouted the surgeon. "We'll be
killed!" He seemed about to leap off.

"Sit still!" cried Tom, and at that instant he tilted the elevation
planes, and the craft shot upward, going over the fence like a circus
horse taking a seven-barred gate.

"Oh!" exclaimed the physician in a curious voice. They were off on
their trip to save the life of Mr. Swift.

What the sensations of the celebrated specialist were, Tom never
learned. If he was afraid, his fright quickly gave place to wonder, and
the wonder soon changed to delight as the machine rose higher and
higher, acquired more speed, and soared in the air over the country
that spread out in all directions from Kirkville.

"Magnificent! Magnificent!" murmured the doctor, and then Tom knew that
the surgeon was in the grip of the air, and was one of the "bird-men."

Every moment the Humming-Bird increased her speed. They passed over the
river near where men were working on the broken bridge. It was now no
barrier to them. Tom, noting the barograph, and seeing that they were
twenty-two hundred feet high, decided to keep at about that distance
from the earth.

"How fast are we going?" cried Dr. Hendrix, into the ear of the young
inventor.

"Just a little short of a hundred an hour!" Tom shouted back. "We'll
hit a hundred and five before long."

His prediction proved true, and when about forty miles from Shopton
that terrific speed had been attained. It seemed as if they were going
to have a trip devoid of incident, and Tom was congratulating himself
on the quick time made, when he ran into a contrary strata of air.
Almost before he knew it the Humming-Bird gave a dangerous and
sickening dive, and tilted at a terrifying angle.

"Are we going to turn turtle?" cried the doctor.

"I--I hope not!" gasped Tom. He could not understand why the
equilibrium weights did not work, but he had no time then to
investigate. Quickly he warped the wing tips and brought the craft up
on an even keel.

He gave a sigh of relief as the aeroplane was once more shooting
forward, and he was not mistaken when he thought he heard Dr. Hendrix
murmur a prayer of thankfulness. Their escape had been a narrow one.
Tom's nerve, and the coolness of the physician, had alone saved them
from a fall to death.

But now, as if ashamed of her prank, the Humming-Bird went along even
better than before. Tom was peering through the slight haze that hung
over the earth, for a sight of Shopton. At length the spires of the
churches came into view.

"There it is," he called, pointing downward. "We'll land in two minutes
more."

"No time to spare," murmured the doctor, who knew the serious nature of
the aged inventor's illness. "How long did it take us?"

"Fifty-one minutes," replied Tom, glancing at a small clock in front of
him. Then he shut off the motor and volplaned to earth, to the no small
astonishment of the surgeon. He made a perfect landing in the yard
before the shed, leaped from his seat, and called:

"Come, Dr. Hendrix!"

The surgeon followed him. Dr. Gladby and Dr. Kurtz came to the door of
the house. On their faces were grave looks. They greeted the celebrated
surgeon eagerly.

"Well?" he asked quickly, and they knew what he meant.

"You are only just in time," said Dr. Gladby, softly, and Tom,
following the doctors into the house, wondered if his trip with the
specialist had been in vain.




Chapter Twenty-One

"Will He Live?"


Soon there were busy scenes in the Swift home, as preparations were
made for a serious operation on the aged inventor. Tom's father had
sunk into deep unconsciousness, and was stretched out on the bed as
though there was no more life in him. In fact, Tom, for the moment,
feared that it was all over. But good old Dr. Kurtz, noting the look on
the lad's face, said:

"Ach, Dom, doan't vorry! Maybe it vill yet all be vell, und der vater
vill hear of der great race. Bluck up your courage, und doan't gif up.
Der greatest surgeon in der vorld is here now, und if anybody gan safe
your vater, Herr Hendriz gan. Dot vos a great drip you made--a great
drip!"

Tom felt a little comforted and, after a sight of his father, and a
silent prayer that God would spare his life for years to come, the
young inventor went out in the yard. He wanted to be busy about
something, for he knew, with the doctors, and a trained nurse who had
been hastily summoned, there was no immediate need for him. He wanted
to get his mind off the operation that would soon take place, and so he
decided to look over his aeroplane.

Mr. Damon came out when Tom was going over the guy wires and braces, to
see how they had stood the strain.

"Well, Tom, my lad," said the eccentric man, sadly, as he grasped our
hero's hand, "it's too bad. But hope for the best. I'm sure your father
will pull through. We will have to begin taking the Humming-Bird apart
soon; won't we, if we're going to ship it to Eagle Park?" He wanted to
take Tom's mind off his troubles.

"I don't know whether we will or not," was the answer, and Tom tried to
speak unbrokenly, but there was a troublesome lump in his throat, and a
mist of tears in his eyes that prevented him from seeing well. The
Humming-Bird, to him, looked as if she was in a fog.

"Nonsense! Of course we will!" cried Mr. Damon. "Why, bless my
wishbone!  Tom, you don't mean to say you're going to let that little
shrimp Andy Foger walk away with that ten-thousand-dollar prize without
giving him a fight for it; are you?"

This was just what Tom needed, and it seemed good to have Mr. Damon
bless something again, even if it was only a wishbone.

"No!" exclaimed Tom, in ringing tones. "Andy Foger isn't going to beat
me, and if I find out he is going to race with a machine made after my
stolen plans, I'll make him wish he'd never taken them."

"But if the machine he had flying over here when he dropped that bomb
on the shed roof, and set fire to it, is the one he's going to race
with, it isn't like yours," suggested Mr. Damon, who was glad he had
turned the conversation into a more cheerful channel.

"That's so," agreed the young inventor. "Well, we'll have to wait and
see." He was busy now, going over every detail of the Humming-Bird. Mr.
Damon helped him, and they discovered the defect in the equilibrium
weights, and remedied it.

"We can't afford to have an accident in the race," said Tom. He glanced
toward the house, and wondered if the operation had begun yet. He could
see the trained nurse hurrying here and there, Mrs. Baggert helping her.

Eradicate Sampson shuffled out from the stable where he kept his mule
Boomerang. On the face of the honest colored man there was a dejected
look.

"Am Massa Swift any better, Massa Tom?" he asked.

"We can't tell yet," was the answer.

"Well, if he doan't git well, den I'm goin' t' sell mah mule," went on
the dirt-chaser, from which line of activity Eradicate had derived his
name.

"Sell Boomerang! Bless my curry comb! what for?" asked Mr. Damon.

"'Case as how he wouldn't neber be any good fo' wuk any mo'," explained
Eradicate. "He's got so attached t' dis place, an' all de folkes on it,
dat he'd feel so sorry ef--ef--well, ef any ob 'em went away, dat I
couldn't git no mo' wuk out ob him, no how. So ef Massa Swift doan't
git well, den I an' Boomerang parts!"

"Well, we hope it won't happen," said Tom, greatly touched by the
simple grief of Eradicate. The young inventor was silent a moment, and
then he softly added: "I--I wonder when--when we'll know?"

"Soon now, I think," answered Mr. Damon, in a low voice.

Silently they waited about the aeroplane. Tom tried to busy himself,
but he could not. He kept his eyes fastened on the house.

It seemed like several hours, but it was not more than one, ere the
white-capped nurse came to the door and waved her hand to Tom. He
sprang to his feet and rushed forward. What would be the message he was
to receive?

He stood before the nurse, his heart madly beating. She looked gently
at him.

"Will he--will he live?" Tom asked, pantingly.

"I think so," she answered gently. "The operation is over. It was a
success, so far. Time alone will tell, now. Dr. Hendrix says you can
see your father for just a moment."




Chapter Twenty-Two

Off to the Meet


Softly Tom tiptoed into the room where his father lay. At the bedside
were the three doctors, and the nurse followed the young inventor in.
Mrs. Baggert stood in the hall, and near her was Garret Jackson. The
aged housekeeper had been weeping, but she smiled at Tom through her
tears.

"I think he's going to get well," she whispered. She always looked on
the bright side of things. Tom's heart felt better.

"You must only speak a few words to him," cautioned the specialist, who
had performed such a rare and delicate operation, near the heart of the
invalid. "He is very weak, Tom."

Mr. Swift opened his eyes as his son approached. He looked around
feebly.

"Tom--are you there?" he asked in a whisper.

"Yes, dad," was the eager answer.

"They tell me you--you made a great trip to get Dr. Hendrix--broken
bridge--came through the air with him. Is that right?"

"Yes, dad. But don't tire yourself. You must get well and strong."

"I will, Tom. But tell me; did you go in--in the Humming-Bird?"

"Yes, dad."

"How did she work?"

"Fine. Over a hundred, and the motor wasn't at its best."

"That's good. Then you can go in the big race, and win."

"No, I don't believe I'll go, dad."

"Why not?" Mr. Swift spoke more strongly.

"I--because--well, I don't want to."

"Nonsense, Tom! I know; it's on my account. I know it is. But listen to
me. I want you to go in! I want you to win that race! Never mind about
me. I'm going to get well, and I'll recover all the more quickly if you
win that race. Now promise me you'll go in it and--and--win!"

The invalid's strength was fast leaving him.

"I--I---," began Tom.

"Promise!" insisted the aged inventor, trying to rise. Dr. Hendrix made
a hasty move toward the bed.

"Promise!" whispered the surgeon to Tom.

"I--I promise!" exclaimed Tom, and the aged inventor sank back with a
smile of satisfaction on his pale face.

"Now you must go," said Dr. Gladby to Tom. "He has talked long enough.
He must sleep now, and get up his strength."

"Will he get better?" asked Tom, anxiously.

"We can't say for sure," was the answer. "We have great hopes."

"I don't want to enter the race unless I know he is going to live,"
went on Tom, as Dr. Gladby followed him out of the room.

"No one can say for a certainty that he will recover," spoke the
physician. "You will have to hope for the best, that is all, Tom. If I
were you I'd go in the race. It will occupy your mind, and if you could
send good news to your father it might help him in the fight for life
he is making."

"But suppose--suppose something happens while I am away?" suggested the
young inventor.

The doctor thought for a moment. Then he exclaimed:

"You have a wireless outfit on your craft; haven't you?"

"Yes."

"Then you can receive messages from here every hour if you wish. Garret
Jackson, your engineer, can send them, and you can pick them up in
mid-air if need be."

"So I can!" cried Tom. "I will go to the meet. I'll take the
Humming-Bird apart at once, and ship it to Eagle Park. Unless Dr.
Hendrix wants to go back in it," he added as an after thought.

"No," spoke Dr. Gladby, "Dr. Hendrix is going to remain here for a few
days, in case of an emergency. By that time the bridge will have been
repaired, and he can go back by train. I gather, from what he said,
that though he liked the air trip, he will not care for another one."

"Very well," assented Tom, and Mr. Damon and he were kept busy, packing
the Humming-Bird for shipment. Mr. Jackson helped them, and Eradicate
and his mule Boomerang were called on occasionally when boxes or crates
were to be taken to the railroad station.

In the meanwhile, Mr. Swift, if he did not improve any, at least held
his own. This the doctors said was a sign of hope, and, though Tom was
filled with anxiety, he tried to think that fate would be kind to him,
and that his father would recover. Dr. Hendrix left, saying there was
nothing more he could do, and that the rest depended on the local
physicians, and on the nurse.

"Und ve vill do our duty!" ponderously exclaimed Dr. Kurtz. "You go off
to dot bird race, Dom, und doan't vorry. Ve vill send der with-out-vire
messages to you venever dere is anyt'ing to report. Go mit a light
heart!"

How Tom wished he could, but it was out of the question. The last of
the parts of the Humming-Bird had been sent away, and our hero
forwarded a telegram to Mr. Sharp, of the arrangement committee,
stating that he and Mr. Damon would soon follow. Then, having bidden
his father a fond farewell, and after arranging with Mr. Jackson to
send frequent wireless messages, Tom and the eccentric man left for the
meet.

There was a wireless station at Eagle Park, and Tom had planned to
receive the messages from home there until he could set up his own
plant. He would have two outfits. One in the big tent where the
Humming-Bird was to be put together, and another on the machine itself,
so that when in the air, practicing, or even in the great race itself,
there would be no break in the news that was to be flashed through
space.

Tom and Mr. Damon arrived at Eagle Park on time, and Tom's first
inquiry was for a message from home. There was one, stating that Mr.
Swift was fairly comfortable, and seemed to be doing well. With
happiness in his heart, the young inventor then set about getting the
parts of his craft from the station to the park, where he and Mr.
Damon, with a trusty machinist whom Mr. Sharp had recommended, would
assemble it. Tom arranged that in his absence the wireless operator on
the grounds would take any message that came for him.

The Humming-Bird, in the big cases and boxes, had safely arrived, and
these were soon in the tent which had been assigned to Tom. It was
still several days until the opening of the meet, and the grounds
presented a scene of confusion.

Workmen were putting up grand stands, tents and sheds were being
erected, exhibitors were getting their machines in shape, and excited
contestants of many nationalities were hurrying to and fro, inquiring
about parts delayed in shipment, or worrying lest some of their pet
ideas be stolen.

Tom and Mr. Damon, with Frank Forker, the young machinist, were soon
busy in their big tent, which was a combined workshop and living
quarters, for Tom had determined to stay right on the ground until the
big race was over.

"I don't see anything of Andy Foger," remarked Mr. Damon, on the second
day of their residence in the park. "There are lots of new entries
arriving, but he doesn't seem to be on hand."

"There's time enough," replied Tom. "I am afraid he's hanging back
until the last minute, and will spring his machine so late that I won't
have time to lodge a protest. It would be just like him."

"Well, I'll be on the lookout for him. Have you heard from home to-day,
Tom?"

"No. I'm expecting a message any minute." The young inventor glanced
toward the wireless apparatus which had been set up in the tent. At
that moment there came the peculiar sound which indicated a message
coming through space, and down the receiving wires. "There's something
now!" exclaimed Tom, as he hurried over and clamped the telephone
receiver to his ear. He listened a moment.

"Good news!" he exclaimed. "Dad sat up a little to-day! I guess he's
going to get well!" and he clicked back congratulations to his father
and the others in Shopton.

Another day saw the Humming-Bird almost in shape again, and Tom was
preparing for a tryout of the engine.

Mr. Damon had gone over to the committee headquarters to consult with
Mr. Sharp about the steps necessary for Tom to take in case Andy did
attempt to enter a craft that infringed on the ideas of the young
inventor, and on his way back he saw a newly-erected tent. There was a
young man standing in the entrance, at the sight of whom the eccentric
man murmured:

"Bless my skate-strap! His face looks very familiar!"

The youth disappeared inside the tent suddenly, and, as Mr. Damon came
opposite the canvas shelter, he started in surprise.

For, on a strip of muslin which was across the tent, painted in gay
colors, were the words:


THE FOGER AEROPLANE


"Bless my elevation rudder!" cried Mr. Damon. "Andy's here at last! I
must tell Tom!"




Chapter Twenty-Three

The Great Race


"Well," remarked Mr. Sharp, when Tom and Mr. Damon had called on him,
to state that Andy Foger's machine was now on the grounds, and
demanding to be allowed to view it, to see if it was an infringement on
the one entered by the young inventor, "I'll do the best I can for you.
I'll lay the case before the committee. It will meet at once, and I'll
let you know what they say."

"Understand," said Tom, "I don't want to interfere unless I am
convinced that Andy is trying an underhand trick. My plans are missing,
and I think he took them. If his machine is made after those plans, it
is, obviously, a steal, and I want him ruled out of the meet."

"And so he shall be!" exclaimed Mr. Sharp. "Get the evidence against
him, and we'll act quickly enough."

The committee met in about an hour, and considered the case. Meanwhile,
Tom and Mr. Damon strolled past the tent with its flaring sign. There
was a man on guard, but Andy was not in sight.

Then Tom was sent for, and Mr. Sharp told him what conclusion had been
arrived at. It was this:

"Under the rules of the meet," said the balloonist, "we had to
guarantee privacy to all the contestants until such time as they choose
to exhibit their machines. That is, they need not bring them out until
just before the races," he added. "This is not a handicap affair, and
the speediest machine, or the one that goes to the greatest height,
according to which class it enters, will win. In consequence we cannot
force any contestant to declare what kind of a machine he will use
until he gets ready.

"Some are going to use the familiar type of biplanes and, as you can
see, there is no secret about them. They are trying them out now." This
was so, for several machines of this type were either in the air,
circling about, or were being run over the ground.

"But others," continued Mr. Sharp, "will not even take the committee
into their confidence until just before the race. They want to keep
their craft a secret. We can't compel them to do otherwise. I'm sorry,
Tom, but the only thing I see for you to do is to wait until the last
minute. Then, if you find Andy has infringed on your machine, lodge a
protest--that is unless you can get evidence against him before that
time."

Tom well knew the uselessness of the latter plan. He and Mr. Damon had
tried several times to get a glimpse of the craft Andy had made, but
without success. As to the other alternative--that of waiting until the
last moment--Tom feared that, too, would be futile.

"For," he reasoned, "just before the race there will be a lot of
confusion, officials will be here and there, scattered over the ground,
they will be hard to find, and it will be almost useless to protest
then. Andy will enter the race, and there is a possibility that he may
win. Almost any one could with a machine like the Humming-Bird. It's
the machine almost as much as the operator, in a case like this."

"But you can protest after the race," suggested Mr. Damon.

"That would be little good, in case Andy beat me. The public would say
I was a sorehead, and jealous. No, I've either got to stop Andy before
the race, or not at all. I will try to think of a plan."

Tom did think of several, but abandoned them one after the other. He
tried to get a glimpse inside the tent where the Foger aeroplane was
housed, but it was too closely guarded. Andy himself was not much in
evidence, and Tom only had fleeting glimpses of the bully.

Meanwhile he and Mr. Damon, together with their machinist, were kept
busy. As Tom's craft was fully protected by patents now, he had no
hesitation in taking it out, and it was given several severe tests
around the aerial course. It did even better than Tom expected of it,
and he had great hopes.

Always, though, there were two things that worried him. One was his
father's illness, and the other the uneasiness he felt as to what Andy
Foger might do. As to the former, the wireless reports indicated that
Mr. Swift was doing as well as could be expected, but his improvement
was not rapid. Regarding the latter worry, Tom saw no way of getting
rid of it.

"I've just got to wait, that's all," he thought.

The day before the opening of the meet, Tom and Mr. Damon had given the
Humming-Bird a grueling tryout. They had taken her high up--so high
that no prying eyes could time them, and there Tom had opened the motor
for all the power in it. They had flashed through space at the rate of
one hundred and twenty miles an hour.

"If we can only do that in the race, the ten thousand dollars is mine!"
exulted Tom, as he slanted the nose of the aeroplane toward the earth.

The day of the race dawned clear and beautiful. Tom was up early, for
there remained many little things to do to get his craft in final trim
for the contest. Then, too, he wanted to be ready to act promptly as
soon as Andy's machine was wheeled out, and he also wanted to get a
message from home.

The wireless arrived soon after breakfast, and did not contain very
cheering news.

"Your father not so well," Mr. Jackson sent. "Poor night, but doctor
thinks day will show improvement. Don't worry."

"Don't worry! I wonder who could help it," mused poor Tom. "Well, I'll
hope for the best," and he wired back to tell the engineer in Shopton
to keep in touch with him, and to flash the messages to the
Humming-Bird in the air, after the big race started.

"Now I'll go out and see if I can catch a glimpse of what that sneak
Andy has to pit against me," said Tom.

The Foger tent was tightly closed, and Tom turned back to his own
place, having arranged with a messenger to come and let him know as
soon as Andy's craft was wheeled out.

All about was a scene of great activity. The grand stands were filled,
and a big crowd stood about the field anxiously waiting for the first
sight of the "bird-men" in their wonderful machines. Now and then the
band blared out, and cheers arose as one after another the frail craft
were wheeled to the starting place.

Men in queer leather costumes darted here and there--they were the
aviators who were soon to risk life and limb for glory and gold. Most
of them were nervously smoking cigarettes. The air was filled with
guttural German or nasal French, while now and then the staccato
Russian was heard, and occasionally the liquid tones of a Japanese. For
men of many nations were competing for the prizes.

The majority of the machines were monoplanes and biplanes though one
triplane was entered, and there were several "freaks" as the biplane
and monoplane men called them--craft of the helicopter, or the wheel
type.  There was also one Witzig Liore Dutilleul biplane, with three
planes behind.

Tom was familiar with most of these types, but occasionally he saw a
new one that excited his curiosity. However, he was more interested in
what Andy Foger would turn out. Andy's machine had not been tried, and
Tom wondered how he dared risk flying in it, without at least a
preliminary tryout. But Andy, and those with him, were evidently full
of confidence.

News of the suspicions of Tom, and what he intended to do in case these
suspicions proved true, had gotten around, and there was quite a crowd
about his own tent, and another throng around that of Andy.

Tom and Mr. Damon had wheeled the Humming-Bird out of her canvas
"nest." There was a cheer as the crowd caught sight of the trim little
craft. The young inventor, the eccentric man, and the machinist were
busy going over every part.

Meanwhile the meet had been officially opened, and it was announced
that the preliminary event would be some air evolutions at no great
height, and for no particular prize. Several biplanes and monoplanes
took part in this. It was very interesting, but the big
ten-thousand-dollar race, over a distance of a hundred miles was the
principal feature of the meet, and all waited anxiously for this.

The opening stunts passed off successfully, save that a German operator
in a Bleriot came to grief, crashing down to the ground, wrecking his
machine, and breaking an arm. But he only laughed at that, and coolly
demanded another cigarette, as he crawled out of the tangle of wires,
planes and the motor.

After this there was an exhibition flight by a French aviator in a
Curtis biplane, who raced against one in a Baby Wright. It was a dead
heat, according to the judges. Then came a flight for height; and while
no records were broken, the crowd was well satisfied.

"Get ready for the hundred-mile ten-thousand-dollar-prize race!"
shouted the announcer, through his megaphone.

Tom's heart gave a bound. There were seven entrants in this contest
besides Tom and Andy Foger, and as announced by the starter they were
as follows:

  CONTESTANT                   MACHINE
  Von Bergen.................Wright Biplane
  Alameda..............Antoinette Monoplane
  Perique.................Bleriot Monoplane
  Loi Tong..........Santos-Dumont Monoplane
  Wendell....................Curtis Biplane
  De Tromp...................Farman Biplane
  Lascalle.............Demoiselle Monoplane
  Andy Foger.................--------------
  Tom Swift..........Humming-Bird Monoplane


"What is the style of the Foger machine?" yelled some one in the crowd,
as the announcer lowered his megaphone.

"It has not been announced," was the reply. "It will at once be wheeled
out though, in accordance with the conditions of the race."

There was a craning of necks, and an uneasy movement in the crowd, for
Tom's story was now generally known.

"Get ready to make your protest," advised Mr. Damon to the young
inventor. "I'll stay by the machine here until you come back. Bless my
radiator! I hope you beat him!"

"I will, if it's possible!" murmured Tom, with a grim tightening of his
lips.

There was a movement about Andy's tent, whence, for the last half hour
had come spasmodic noises that indicated the trying-out of the motor.
The flaps were pulled back and a curious machine was wheeled into view.
Tom rushed over toward it, intent on getting the first view. Would it
prove to be a copy of his speedy Humming-Bird?

Eagerly he looked, but a curious sight met his eyes. The machine was
totally unlike any he had expected to see. It was large, and to his
mind rather clumsy, but it looked powerful. Then, as he took in the
details, he knew that it was the same one that had flown over his house
that night--it was the one from which the fire bomb had been dropped.

He pushed his way through the crowd. He saw Andy standing near the
curious biplane, which type of air craft it nearest resembled, though
it had some monoplane features. On the side was painted the name:

           SLUGGER


Andy caught sight of Tom Swift.

"I'm going to beat you!" the bully boasted, "and I haven't a machine
like yours, after all. You were wrong."

"So I see," stammered Tom, hardly knowing what to think. "What did you
do with my plans then?"

"I never had them!"

Andy turned away, and began to assist the men he had hired to help him.
Like all the others, his machine had two seats, for in this race each
operator must carry a passenger.

Tom turned away, both glad and sorry,--glad that his rival was not to
race him in a duplicate of the Humming-Bird, but sorry that he had as
yet no track of the strangely missing plans.

"I wonder where they can be?" mused the young inventor.

Then came the firing of the preliminary gun. Tom rushed back to where
Mr. Damon stood waiting for him.

There was a last look at the Humming-Bird. She was fit to race any
machine on the ground. Mr. Damon took his place. Tom started the
propeller. The other contestants were in their seats with their
passengers. Their assistants stood ready to shove them off. The
explosions of so many motors in action were deafening.

"How much thrust?" cried Tom to his machinist.

"Twenty-two hundred pounds!"

"Good!"

The report of the starting-gun could not be heard. But the smoke of it
leaped into the air. It was the signal to go.

Tom's voice would not have carried five feet. He waved his hands as a
signal. His helper thrust the Humming-Bird forward. Over the smooth
ground it rushed. Tom looked eagerly ahead. On a line with him were the
other machines, including Andy Foger's Slugger.

Tom pulled a lever. He felt his craft soar upward. The other machines
also pointed their noses into the air.

The big race for the ten-thousand-dollar prize was under way!




Chapter Twenty-Four

Won by a Length


Rising upward, on a steep slant, for he wanted to get into the upper
currents as soon as possible, Tom looked down and off to his left and
saw one machine going over the ground in curious leaps and bounds. It
was the tiny Demoiselle--the smallest craft in the race, and its
peculiar style of starting was always thus manifested.

"I don't believe he's going to make it," thought Tom.

He was right. In another moment the tiny craft, after rising a short
distance, dove downward, and was wrecked. The young inventor saw the
two men crawling out from the tangled planes and wings, apparently
uninjured.

"One contestant less," thought Tom, grimly, though with pity in his
heart for the unfortunates.

However, he must think of himself and his own craft now. He glanced at
Mr. Damon sitting beside him. That odd gentleman, with never a thought
of blessing anything now, unless he did it silently, was watching the
lubricating system. This was a vital part of the craft, for if anything
went wrong with it, and the bearings overheated, the race would have to
be abandoned. So Tom was not trusting to any automatic arrangement, but
had instituted, almost at the last moment, a duplicate hand-worked
system, so that if one failed him he would have the other.

"A good start!" shouted Mr. Damon in his ear.

Tom nodded, and glanced behind him. On a line with the Humming-Bird,
and at about the same elevation, were the Bleriot monoplane and a
Wright biplane. Below were the Santos-Dumont and the Antoinette.

"Where's the Slugger?" called Tom to his friend.

Mr. Damon motioned upward. There, in the air above Tom's machine, and
slightly in advance, was Andy Foger's craft. He had gotten away in
better shape than had the Humming-Bird.

For a moment Tom's heart misgave him. Then he turned on more power, and
had the satisfaction of mounting upward and shooting onward until he
was on even terms with Andy.

The bully gave one glance over toward his rival, and pulled a lever.
The Slugger increased her speed, but Tom was not a second behind him.

There was a roaring noise in the rear, and up shot De Tromp in the
Farman, and Loi Tong, the little Japanese, in the Santos-Dumont. Truly
the race was going to be a hotly contested one. But the end was far off
yet.

After the first jockeying for a start and position, the race settled
down into what might be termed a "grind." The course was a large one,
but so favorable was the atmosphere that day, and such was the location
of Eagle Park in a great valley, that even on the far side of the great
ellipse the contestants could be seen, dimly with the naked eye, but
very plainly with glasses, with which many of the spectators were
provided.

Around and around they went, at no very great height, for it was
necessary to make out the signals set up by the race officials, so that
the contestants would know when they were near the finish, that they
might use the last atom of speed. So at varying heights the wonderful
machines circled about the course.

The Humming-Bird was working well, and Tom felt a sense of pride as he
saw the ground slipping away below him. He felt sure that he would win,
even when Alameda, the Spaniard, in the Antoinette, came creeping up on
him, and even when Andy Foger, with a burst of speed, placed himself
and his passenger in the lead.

"I'll catch him!" muttered Tom, and he opened the throttle a trifle
wider, and went after Andy, passing him with ease.

They had covered about thirty miles of the course, when the humming and
crackling of the wireless apparatus told Tom that a message was coming.
He snapped the receiver to his ear, adjusting the outer covering to
shut out the racket of the motor, and listened.

"Well?" asked Mr. Damon, as Tom took off the receiver.

"Dad isn't quite so well," answered the lad. "Mr. Jackson says they
have sent for Dr. Hendrix again. But dad is game. He sends me word to
go on and win, and I'll do it, too, only--"

Tom paused, and choked back a sob. Then he prepared to get more speed
out of his motor.

"Of course you will!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my--!"

But they encountered an adverse current of wind at that moment, and it
required the attention of both of the aviators to manage the machine.
It was soon on an even keel again, and once more was shooting forward
around the course.

At times Tom would be in advance, and again he would have to give place
to the Curtis, the Farman, or the Santos-Dumont, as these speedy
machines, favored by a spurt from their motors, or by some current of
air, shot ahead. But, in general, Tom maintained the lead, and among
the spectators there began a series of guesses as to how much he would
win by.

Tom glanced at the barograph. It registered a little over twelve
hundred feet. He looked at the speed gage. He was doing a trifle better
than a hundred miles an hour. He looked down at the signals. There was
twenty miles yet to go. It was almost time for the spurt for which he
had been holding back. Yet he would wait until five miles from the end,
and then he felt that he could gain and maintain a lead.

"Andy seems to be doing well," said Mr. Damon.

"Yes, he has a good machine," conceded Tom.

Five miles more were reeled off. Then another five. Another round of
that distance and Tom would key his motor up to the highest pitch, and
then the Humming-Bird would show what she could do. Eagerly Tom waited
for the right signal.

Suddenly the wireless began buzzing again. Quickly the young inventor
clamped the receiver to his ear. Mr. Damon saw him turn pale.

"Dr. Gladby says dad has a turn for the worse. There is little hope,"
translated Tom.

"Will you--are you going to quit?" asked Mr. Damon.

Tom shook his head.

"No!" he cried. "My father has become unconscious, so Mr. Jackson says,
but his last words were to me: 'Tell Tom to win the race!' And I'm
going to do it!"

Tom suddenly changed his plans. There was to be no waiting for the
signal now. He would begin his final spurt, and if possible finish the
hundred miles at his utmost speed, win the race and then hasten to his
father's side.

With a menacing roar the motor of the Humming-Bird took up the
additional power that Tom sent into her. She shot ahead like an eagle
darting after his prey. Tom opened up a big gap between his machine and
the one nearest him, which, at that moment, was the Antoinette, with
the Spaniard driving her.

"Now to win!" cried Tom, grimly.

Surely no race was ever flown as was that one! Tom flashed through the
air so quickly that his speed was almost incredible. The gage
registered one hundred and thirty miles an hour!

Down below in the grand stands, and on the aviation field, there were
yells of approval--of wonder--of fear. But Tom and Mr. Damon could not
hear them. They only heard the powerful song of the motor.

Faster and faster flew the Humming-Bird. Tom looked down, and saw the
signal put up which meant that there were but three miles more to go.
He felt that he could do it. He was half a lap ahead of them all now.
But he saw Andy Foger's machine pulling away from the bunch.

"He's going to try to catch me!" exulted Tom.

Then something happened. The motor of the Humming-Bird suddenly
slackened its speed, it missed explosions, and the trim little craft
began to drop behind.

"What's the matter?" cried Mr. Damon.

"Three of the cylinders are out of business!" yelled Tom. "We're done
for, I guess."

On came the other machines, Andy in the lead, then the Santos-Dumont,
then the Farman, and lastly the Wright. They saw the plight of the
Humming-Bird and determined to beat her. Tom cast a despairing look up
at the motor. There was nothing to be done. He could not reach it in
mid-air. He could only keep on, crippled as he was, and trust to luck.

Andy passed by his rival with an evil smile on his ugly face. Then the
Antoinette flashed by. In turn all the others left Tom in the rear. His
heart was like lead. Mr. Damon gazed blankly forward. They were beaten.
It did not seem possible.

There was but a single chance. If Tom shut off all power, coasted for a
moment, and then, ere the propeller had ceased revolving, if he could
start the motor on the spark, the silent cylinders might pick up, with
the others, and begin again. He would try it. They could be no worse
off than they were.

"A mile behind!" gasped Tom. "It's a long chance, but I'll take it."

He shut off the power. The motor was silent, the Humming-Bird began to
fall. But ere she had gone down ten feet Tom suddenly switched on the
batteries. There was a moment of silence, and then came the welcome
roar that told of the rekindled motor. And such a roar as it was! Every
cylinder was exploding as though none of them had ever stopped!

"We did it!" yelled Tom. Opening up at full speed, he sent the sky
racer on the course to overtake and pass his rivals.

Slowly he crept on them. They looked back and saw him coming. They
tried to put on more speed, but it was impossible. Andy Foger was in
the lead.  He was being slowly overhauled by the Santos-Dumont, with
the queer tail-rudders.

"I'll get him!" muttered Tom. "I'll pass 'em all!"

And he did. With a wonderful burst of speed the little Humming-Bird
overtook one after another of her larger rivals, and passed them. Then
she crept up on Andy's Slugger.

In an instant more it was done, and, a good length in advance of the
Foger craft, Tom shot over the finish line a winner, richer by ten
thousand dollars, and, not only that, but he had picked up a mile that
had been lost, and had snatched victory from almost certain defeat.

There was a succession of thundering cheers as he shut off the motor,
and volplaned to earth, but he paid little attention to them. He
brought his craft to a stop just as the wireless on it buzzed again.

He listened with a look of pain on his face.

"My father is dying," he said simply. "I must go to him. Mr. Damon,
will you fill the tanks with oil and gasoline, while I send off a
message?"

"Oil and gasoline," murmured the odd man, while hundreds pressed up to
congratulate Tom Swift "What are you going to do?"

"I'm going to my father in the Humming-Bird," said Tom. "It's the only
way I can see him alive," and he began to click off a message to Mr.
Jackson, stating that he had won the race and was going to fly to
Shopton, while Mr. Damon and several others replenished the fuel and
oil of the aeroplane.

Tom Swift had won one race. Could he win the other?




Chapter Twenty-Five

Home Again--Conclusion


Mr. Sharp pushed his way through the crowd.

"The committee has the certified check ready for you, Tom," called the
balloonist. "Will you come and get it?"

"Send it to me, please," answered the young inventor. "I must go to my
father."

"Huh! I'd have beaten him in another round," boasted Andy Foger. No one
paid any attention to him.

"Monsieur ezz plucky!" said the Frenchman, Perique. "I am honaired to
shake his hand! He has broken all ze records!"

"Dot's der best machine I effer saw," spoke the Dutchman, De Tromp,
ponderously. "Shake hands!"

"Ver' fine, ver' good!" came from the little Japanese, and all the
contestants congratulated Tom warmly. Never before had a hundred miles
been covered so speedily.

A man elbowed his way through the press of people.

"Is your machine fully protected by patents?" he inquired earnestly.

"It is," said Tom.

"Then, as a representative of the United States Government, I would
like an option to purchase the exclusive right to use them," said the
man.  "Can you guarantee that no one else has any plans of them? It
will mean a fortune to you."

Tom hesitated. He thought of the stolen plans. If he could only get
possession of them! He glanced at Andy Foger, who was wheeling his
machine back into the tent. But there was no time now to have it out
with the bully.

"I will see you again," said Tom to the government agent. "I must go to
my father, who is dying. I can't answer you now."

The tanks were filled. Tom gave a hasty look to his machine, and,
bidding his new friends farewell, he and Mr. Damon took their places
aboard the Humming-Bird. The little craft rose in the air, and soon
they had left Eagle Park far behind. Eagerly Tom strained his eyes for
a sight of his home town, though he knew it would be several hours ere
he could hover over it.

Would he be in time? Would he be in time? That question came to him
again and again.

For a time the Humming-Bird skimmed along as though she delighted in
the rapid motion, in slipping through the air and sliding along on the
billows of wind. Tom, with critical ears, listened to the hum of the
motor, the puffing of the exhaust, the grinding of the gear wheels, and
the clicking of the trips, as valve after valve opened or closed to
admit the mixture of air and gasoline, or closed to give the
compression necessary for the proper explosion.

"Is she working all right?" asked Mr. Damon, anxiously, and, such was
the strain on him that he did not think to bless anything. "Is she all
right, Tom, my lad?"

"I think so. I'm speeding her to the limit. Faster than I ever did
before, but I guess she'll do. She was built to stand a strain, and
she's got to do it now!"

Then there was silence again, as they slid along through the air like a
coaster gliding down a steep descent.

"It was a great race, wasn't it?" asked Mr. Damon, as he shifted to an
easier position in his seat. "A great race, Tom. I didn't think you'd
do it, one spell there."

"Neither did I," came the answer, as the young inventor changed the
spark lever. "But I made up my mind I wouldn't be beaten by Andy Foger,
if I could help it. Though it was taking a risk to shut off the current
the way I did."

"A risk?"

"Yes; it might not have started again," and Tom looked down at the
earth below them, as if measuring the distance he would have fallen had
not his sky racer kept on at the critical moment.

"And--and if the current hadn't come on again; eh, Tom? Would we--?"

Mr. Damon did not finish, but Tom knew what he meant.

"It would have been all up with us," he said simply. "I might have
volplaned back to earth, but at the speed we were going, and at the
height, around a curve, we might have turned turtle."

"Bless my--!" began Mr. Damon, and then he stopped. The thought of
Tom's trouble came to him, and he realized that his words might grate
on the feelings of his companion.

On they rushed through the air with the Humming-Bird speeded up faster
and faster as she warmed to her task. The machinery seemed to be
working perfectly, and as Tom listened to the hum a look of pleasure
replaced the look of anxiety on his face.

"Don't you think we'll make it?" asked Mr. Damon, after another pause,
during which they passed over a large city, the inhabitants exhibiting
much excitement as they sighted the airship over their heads.

"We've got to make it!" declared Tom between his clenched teeth.

He turned on a little more gasoline, and there was a spurt in their
speed which made Mr. Damon grasp the upright braces near him with firm
hands, and his face became a little paler.

"It's all right," spoke Tom, reassuringly. "There's no danger."

But Tom almost reckoned without his host, for a few moments later, as
he was trying to get more revolutions out of the propellers, he ran
into an adverse current of air.

In an instant the Humming-Bird was tilted up almost on her "beams'
ends," so to speak, and had it not been that the young inventor quickly
warped the wing tips, to counteract the pressure on one side, there
might have been a different end to this story.

"Bless my----!" began Mr. Damon, but he got no further, for he had to
bend his body as Tom did, to equalize the pressure of the wind current.

"A little farther over!" yelled the lad. "A little farther over this
way, Mr. Damon!"

"But if I come any more toward you I'll be out of my seat!" objected
the eccentric man.

"If you don't you'll be out of the aeroplane!" cried Tom grimly, and
his companion leaned over as far as he could until the young pilot had
brought the craft to an even keel again.

Then Tom speeded up the motor, which he had partly shut down as they
passed through the danger zone, and again they were racing through
space.

They were nearing Shopton now, as the lad and Mr. Damon could tell by
the familiar landmarks which loomed up in sight. Tom strained his eyes
for the first view of his home.

Suddenly, as they were skimming along, there came a cessation of the
hum and roar that told of the perfectly-working motor. It was an
ominous silence.

"What's--what's wrong?" gasped Mr. Damon.

"Something's given way," answered Tom quickly. "I'm afraid the magneto
isn't sparking as it ought to."

"Well, can't we volplane back to earth?" asked the odd man, for he had
become familiar with this feat when anything happened to the motor.

"We could," answered Tom, "but I'm not going to."

"Why not?"

"Because we're too far from Shopton--and dad! I'm going to keep on.
I've got to--if I want to be there in time!"

"But if the motor doesn't work?"

"I'll make her work!"

Tom was desperately manipulating the various levers and handles
connected with the electrical ignition system. He tried in vain to get
the magneto to resume the giving out of sparks, and, failing in that,
he switched on the batteries. But, to his horror, the dry cells had
given out. There was no way of getting a spark unless the little
electrical machine would work.

The propellers were still whirring around by their own momentum, and if
Tom could switch in the magneto in time all might yet be well.

They had started to fall, but, by quickly bringing up the head plane
tips, Tom sent his craft soaring upward again on a bank of air.

"Here!" he cried to Mr. Damon. "Take the steering-wheel and kept her on
this level as long as you can."

"What are you going to do?"

"I've got to fix that magneto!"

"But if she dips down?"

"Throw up the head planes as I did. It's our only chance! I can't go
down now, so far from Shopton!"

Mr. Damon reached over and took the wheel from Tom's hands. Then the
young inventor, leaning forward, for the magneto was within easy reach,
looked to see what the trouble was. He found it quickly. A wire had
vibrated loose from a binding-post. In a second Tom had it in place
again; and, ere the propellers had ceased revolving, he had turned the
switch. The magneto took up the work in a flash. Once more the spark
exploded the gasoline mixture, and the propellers sent the Humming-Bird
swiftly ahead.

"We'll make it now!" declared Tom grimly.

"We're almost there," added Mr. Damon, as he relinquished the wheel to
the young pilot. The craft had gone down some, but Tom sent her up
again.

Nearer and nearer home they came, until at last the spires of the
Shopton churches loomed into view. Then he was over the village. Now he
was within sight of his own house.

Tom coasted down a bank of air, and brought the Humming-Bird up with a
jerk of the ground brakes. Before the wheels had ceased turning he had
leaped out.

"It's Massa Tom!" cried Eradicate, as he saw Tom alight.

The young inventor hurried into the house. He was met by the nurse, who
held up a warning finger. Tom's heart almost stopped beating. He was
aware that Dr. Gladby came from the room where Mr. Swift lay.

"Is he--is he--am I too late?" gulped Tom.

"Hush!" cautioned the nurse.

Tom reeled, and would have fallen had not the doctor caught him, for
the lad was weak and worn out.

"He is going to get well!" were the joyful words he heard, as if in a
dream, and then his strength suddenly came back to him. "The crisis is
just passed, Tom," went on Dr. Gladby, "and your father will recover,
and be stronger than ever. Your good news of winning was like a tonic
to him. Now let me congratulate you on the race." Tom had flashed by
wireless a brief message of his success.

"Dad's news is better than all the congratulations in the world," he
said softly, as he grasped the doctor's hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a week later. Mr. Swift improved rapidly once the course of the
disease was permanently checked, and he was soon able to sit up. Tom
was with him in the room, talking of the great race, and how he had
won. He fingered the certified check for ten thousand dollars that had
just come to him by mail.

"You certainly did wonderfully well," said the aged inventor, softly.
"Wonderfully well, Tom. I'm proud of you."

"You may well be," added Mr. Damon. "Bless my shoelaces, but I thought
Andy Foger had us there one spell; didn't you, Tom?"

"Indeed I did. But you helped me win, Mr. Damon."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed the odd man.

"Yes, you did. You helped me a lot."

"Well, are you going to keep after more air-prizes, Tom, or are you
going to try for something else?" asked his father.

"I don't believe I'll go in any more aeroplane races right away,"
answered the young inventor. "For some time I've been wanting to
complete and perfect my electric rifle. I think I'll begin work on that
soon."

"And go hunting?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I think so," answered Tom, dreamily. "I don't know just where, though."

Where he went, and what he shot, will be told in the next volume of
this series, to be called: "Tom Swift and His Electric Rifle; or,
Daring Adventures in Elephant Land."

For a few moments after Tom's announcement no one spoke, then the young
inventor said:

"It's too bad that first set of plans were stolen. If I had them I
could make a good deal with the Government about my little aeroplane.
But they don't want to take up with it as long as there is a chance of
some foreign nation getting information about the secret parts, and my
patents won't hold abroad. I wonder if there is any way of getting
those plans away from Andy Foger? I don't understand why he hasn't used
them before this. I thought sure he would make a craft like the
Humming-Bird to race against me."

"What plans are those?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Why, don't you remember?" asked Tom. "The ones I showed you one day,
in the library, when you fell asleep, and some one slipped in and stole
them."

A curious look came over Mr. Swift's face. He passed his hand across
his brow.

"I am beginning to remember something I have been trying to recall ever
since I became ill," he said slowly. "It is coming back to me. Those
plans--in the library--I fell asleep, but before I did so I hid those
plans, Tom!"

"You hid those plans!" Tom fairly shouted the words.

"Yes, I remember feeling a drowsy feeling coming on, and I feared lest
some one might see the drawings. I got up and put them under the
window, in a little, hollow place in the foundation wall. Then I came
back in through the window again, and went to sleep. Then, on account
of my illness, just as I once before forgot something, and thought the
minister had called, I lost all recollection of them. I hid those
plans."

Tom leaped to his feet. He rushed to the place named by his father.
Soon his triumphant shout told of his success. He came hurrying back
into the house with a roll of papers in his hands.

And there were the long-missing plans! damp and stained by the weather,
but all there. No enemy had them, and Tom's secret was safe.

"Now I can accept the Government offer!" he cried. And a few weeks
later he made a most advantageous deal with the United States officials
for his patents.

Dr. Gladby explained that Mr. Swift's queer action was due to his
illness. He became liable to lapses of memory, and one happened just
after he hid away the plans. Even the hiding of them was caused by the
peculiar condition of his brain. He had opened the library window,
slipped oot with the papers, and hastened in again, to fall asleep in
his chair, during the short time Tom was gone.

"And Andy Foger never took them at all," remarked Mary Nestor, when Tom
was telling her about it a few days afterward.

"No. I guess I must apologize to him." Which Tom did, but Andy did not
receive it very graciously, especially as Tom accused him of trying to
destroy the Humming-Bird.

Andy denied this and denied having anything to do with the mysterious
fire, and, as there was no way to prove him guilty, Tom could not
proceed against him. So the matter was dropped.

Mr. Swift continued to improve, and was soon himself again, and able to
resume his inventive work. Tom received several offers to give
exhibition flights at big aero meets, but refused, as he was busy on
his new rifle. Mr. Damon helped him.

Andy Foger made several successful flights in his queer aeroplane,
which turned out to be the product of a German genius who was supplied
with money by Mr. Foger. Andy became very proud, and boasted that he
and the German were going abroad to give flights in Europe.

"I'd be glad if he would," said Tom, when he heard of the plan. "He
wouldn't bother me then."

With the money received from winning the big race, and from his
contracts from the Government, Tom Swift was now in a fair way to
become quite wealthy. He was destined to have many more adventures;
yet, come what might, never would he forget the thrilling happenings
that fell to his lot while flying for the ten-thousand dollar prize in
his sky racer.


End 


TOM SWIFT AND HIS ELECTRIC RIFLE

OR

Daring Adventures in Elephant Land

by VICTOR APPLETON




CONTENTS

     I   TOM WANTS EXCITEMENT
    II   TRYING THE NEW GUN
   III   A DIFFICULT TEST
    IV   BIG TUSKS WANTED
     V   RUSH WORK
    VI   NEWS FROM ANDY
   VII   THE BLACK HAWK FLIES
  VIII   OFF FOR AFRICA
    IX   ATTACKED BY A WHALE
     X   OFF IN THE AIRSHIP
    XI   ANCHORED TO EARTH
   XII   AMONG THE NATIVES
  XIII   ON THE ELEPHANT TRAIL
   XIV   A STAMPEDE
    XV   LIONS IN THE NIGHT
   XVI   SEEKING THE MISSIONARIES
  XVII   SHOTS FROM ABOVE
 XVIII   NEWS OF THE RED PYGMIES
   XIX   AN APPEAL FOR HELP
    XX   THE FIGHT
   XXI   DRIVEN BACK
  XXII   A NIGHT ATTACK
 XXIII   THE RESCUE
  XXIV   TWO OTHER CAPTIVES
   XXV   THE ROGUE ELEPHANT--CONCLUSION




CHAPTER I

TOM WANTS EXCITEMENT


"Have you anything special to do to-night, Ned?" asked Tom Swift,
the well-known inventor, as he paused in front of his chum's window,
in the Shopton National Bank.

"No, nothing in particular," replied the bank clerk, as he stacked
up some bundles of bills. "Why do you ask?"

"I wanted you to come over to the house for a while."

"Going to have a surprise party, or something like that?"

"No, only I've got something I'd like to show you."

"A new invention?"

"Well, not exactly new. You've seen it before, but not since I've
improved it. I'm speaking of my new electric rifle. I've got it
ready to try, now, and I'd like to see what you think of it. There's
a rifle range over at the house, and we can practice some shooting,
if you haven't anything else to do."

"I haven't, and I'll be glad to come. What are you doing in the
bank, anyhow; putting away more of your wealth, Tom?"

"Yes, I just made a little deposit. It's some money I got from the
government for the patents on my sky racer, and I'm salting it down
here until Dad and I can think of a better investment."

"Good idea. Bring us all the money you can," and the bank clerk, who
held a small amount of stock in the financial institution, laughed,
his chum joining in with him.

"Well, then. I'll expect you over this evening," went on the
youthful inventor, as he turned to leave the bank.

"Yes, I'll be there. Say, Tom, have you heard the latest about Andy
Foger?"

"No, I haven't heard much since he left town right after I beat him
in the aeroplane race at Eagle Park."

"Well, he's out of town all right, and I guess for a long time this
trip. He's gone to Europe."

"To Europe, eh? Well, he threatened to go there after he failed to
beat me in the race, but I thought he was only bluffing."

"No, he's really gone this time."

"Well, I, for one, am glad of it. Did he take his aeroplane along?"

"Yes, that's what he went for. It seems that this Mr. Landbacher,
the German who really invented it, and built it with money which Mr.
Foger supplied, has an idea he can interest the German or some other
European government in the machine. Andy wanted to go along with
him, and as Mr. Foger financed the scheme, I guess he thought it
would be a good thing to have some one represent him. So Andy's
gone."

"Then he won't bother me. Well, I must get along. I'll expect you
over to-night," and with a wave of his hand Tom Swift hurried from
the bank.

The young inventor jumped into his electric runabout which stood
outside the institution, and was about to start off when he saw a
newsboy selling papers which had just come in from New York, on the
morning train.

"Here, Jack, give me a TIMES," called Tom to the lad, and he tossed
the newsboy a nickel. Then, after glancing at the front page, and
noting the headings, Tom started off his speedy car, in which, on
one occasion, he had made a great run, against time. He was soon at
home.

"Well, Dad, I've got the money safely put away," he remarked to an
aged gentleman who sat in the library reading a book. "Now we won't
have to worry about thieves until we get some more cash in."

"Well, I'm glad it's coming in so plentifully," said Mr. Swift with
a smile. "Since my illness I haven't been able to do much, Tom, and
it all depends on you, now."

"Don't let that worry you, Dad. You'll soon be as busy as ever,"
for, following a serious operation for an ailment of the heart, Mr.
Swift, who was a veteran inventor, had not been able to do much. But
the devices of his son, especially a speedy monoplane, which Tom
invented, and sold to the United States Government, were now
bringing them in a large income. In fact with royalties from his
inventions and some gold and diamonds which he had secured on two
perilous trips, Tom Swift was quite wealthy.

"I'll never be as busy as I once was," went on Mr. Swift, a little
regretfully, "but I don't know that I care as long as you continue
to turn out new machines, Tom. By the way, how is the electric rifle
coming on? I haven't heard you speak of it lately."

"It's practically finished, Dad. It worked pretty well the time I
took it when we went on the trip to the caves of ice, but I've
improved it very much since then. In fact I'm going to give it a
severe test to-night. Ned Newton is coming over, and it may be that
then we'll find out something about it that could be bettered. But I
think not. It suits me as it is."

"So Ned is coming over to see it; eh? You ought to have Mr. Damon
here to bless it a few times."

"Yes, I wish I did. And he may come along at any moment, as it is.
You never can tell when he is going to turn up. Mrs. Baggert says
you were out walking while I was at the bank, Dad. Do you feel
better after it?"

"Yes, I think I do, Tom. Oh, I'm growing stronger every day, but it
will take time. But now tell me something about the electric gun."

Thereupon the young inventor related to his father some facts about
the improvements he had recently made to the weapon. It was dinner
time when he had finished, and, after the meal Tom went out to the
shed where he built his aeroplanes and his airships, and in which
building he had fitted up a shooting gallery.

"I'll get ready for the trial to-night," he said "I want to see what
it will do to a dummy figure. Guess I'll make a sort of scarecrow
and stuff it with straw. I'll get Eradicate to help me. Rad! I say,
Rad! Where are you?"

"Heah I is, Massa Tom! Heah I is," called a colored man as he came
around the corner of a small stable where he kept his mule
Boomerang. "Was yo'-all callin' me?"

"Yes, Rad, I want you to help make a scarecrow."

"A scarecrow, Massa Tom! Good land a' massy! What fo' yo' want ob a
scarecrow? Yo'-all ain't raisin' no corn, am yo'?"

"No, but I want something to shoot at when Ned Newton comes over
to-night."

"Suffin t' shoot at? Why Massa Tom! Good land a' massy! Yo'-all
ain't gwine t' hab no duel, am yo'?"

"No, Rad, but I want a life-size figure on which to try my new
electric gun. Here are some old clothes, and if you will stuff them
with rags and straw and fix them so they'll stand up, they'll do
first-rate. Have it ready by night, and set it up at the far end of
the shooting gallery."

"All right, Massa Tom. I'll jest do dat, fo' yo'," and leaving the
colored man to stuff the figure, after he had showed him how, Tom
went back into the house to read the paper which he had purchased
that morning.

He skimmed over the news, thinking perhaps he might see something of
the going abroad of Andy Foger with the German aeroplane, but there
was nothing.

"I almost wish I was going to Europe," sighed Tom. "I will certainly
have to get busy at something, soon. I haven't had any adventure
since I won the prize at the Eagle Park aviation meet in my sky
racer. Jove! That was some excitement! I'd like to do that over
again, only I shouldn't want to have Dad so sick," for just before
the race, Tom had saved his father's life by making a quick run in
the aeroplane, to bring a celebrated surgeon to the invalid's aid.

"I certainly wish I could have some new adventures," mused Tom, as
he turned the pages of the paper. "I could afford to take a trip
around the earth after them, too, with the way money is coming in
now. Yes, I do wish I could have some excitement. Hello, what's
this! A big elephant hunt in Africa. Hundreds of the huge creatures
captured in a trap--driven in by tame beasts. Some are shot for
their tusks. Others will be sent to museums."

He was reading the headlines of the article that had attracted his
attention, and, as he read, he became more and more absorbed in it.
He read the story through twice, and then, with sparkling eyes, he
exclaimed:

"That's just what I want. Elephant shooting in Africa! My! With my
new electric rifle, and an airship, what couldn't a fellow do over
in the dark continent! I've a good notion to go there! I wonder if
Ned would go with me? Mr. Damon certainly would. Elephant shooting
in Africa! In an airship! I could finish my new sky craft in short
order if I wanted to. I've a good notion to do it!"




CHAPTER II

TRYING THE NEW GUN


While Tom Swift is thus absorbed in thinking about a chance to hunt
elephants, we will take the opportunity to tell you a little more
about him, and then go on with the story.

Many of you already know the young inventor, but those who do not
may be interested in hearing that he is a young American lad, full
of grit and ginger, who lives with his aged father in the town of
Shopton, in New York State. Our hero was first introduced to the
public in the book, "Tom Swift and His Motorcycle."

In that volume it was related how Tom bought a motor-cycle from a
Mr. Wakefield Damon, of Waterford. Mr. Damon was an eccentric
individual, who was continually blessing himself, some one else, or
something belonging to him. His motor-cycle tried to climb a tree
with him, and that was why he sold it to Tom. The two thus became
acquainted, and their friendship grew from year to year.

After many adventures on his motor-cycle Tom got a motor-boat, and
had some exciting times in that. One of the things he and his father
and his chum, Ned Newton, did, was to rescue, from a burning balloon
that had fallen into Lake Carlopa, an aeronaut named John Sharp.
Later Tom and Mr. Sharp built an airship called the Red Cloud, and
with Mr. Damon and some others had a series of remarkable fights.

In the Red Cloud they got on the track of some bank robbers, and
captured them, thus foiling the plans of Andy Foger, a town bully,
and one of Tom's enemies, and putting to confusion the plot of Mr.
Foger, Andy's father.

After many adventures in the air Tom and his friends, in a submarine
boat, invented by Mr. Swift, went under the ocean for sunken
treasure and secured a large part of it.

It was not long after this that Tom conceived the idea of a powerful
electric car, which proved, to be the speediest of the road, and in
it he won a great race, and saved from ruin a bank in which his
father and Mr. Damon were interested.

The sixth book of the series, entitled "Tom Swift and His Wireless
Message," tells how, in testing a new electric airship, which a
friend of Mr. Damon's had invented, Tom, the inventor and Mr. Damon
were lost on an island in the middle of the ocean. There they found
some castaways, among whom were Mr. and Mrs. Nestor, parents of Mary
Nestor of Shopton, a girl of whom Tom was quite fond.

Tom Swift, after his arrival home, went on an expedition among a
gang of men known as the "Diamond Makers" who were hidden in the
Rocky Mountains. He was accompanied by Mr. Barcoe Jenks, one of the
castaways of Earthquake Island. They found the diamond makers, and
had some surprising adventures, barely escaping with their lives.

This did not daunt Tom, however, and he once more started off on an
expedition in his airship the Red Cloud to Alaska, amid the caves of
ice. He was searching for a valley of gold, and though he and his
friends found it, they came to grief. The Fogers, father and son,
tried to steal the gold from them, and, failing in that, incited the
Eskimos against our friends. There was a battle, but the forces of
nature were even more to be dreaded than the terrible savages.

The ice cave, in which the Red Cloud was stored, collapsed, crushing
the gallant craft, and burying it out of sight forever under
thousand of tons of the frozen bergs.

After a desperate journey Tom and his friends reached civilization,
with a large supply of gold. Tom regretted very much the destruction
of the airship, but he at once set to work on another--a monoplane
this time, instead of a combined aeroplane and dirigible balloon.
This new craft he called the Humming-Bird and it was a "sky racer"
of terrific speed. In it, as we have said, Tom brought a specialist
to operate on his father, when, because of a broken railroad bridge,
the physician could not otherwise have gotten to Shopton. He and Tom
traveled through the air at the rate of over one hundred miles an
hour. Later, Tom took part in a big race for a ten-thousand-dollar
prize, and won, defeating Andy Foger, and a number of well-known
"bird-men" who used biplanes and monoplanes of a more or less
familiar type.

The government became interested in Tom's craft, the Humming-Bird,
and, as told in the ninth book of this series, Tom Swift and His Sky
Racer, they secured some rights in the invention.

And now Tom, who had done nothing for several months following the
great race--that is, nothing save to work on his new rifle--Tom, we
say, sighed for new adventures.

"Well, Tom, what is on your mind?" asked his father at the supper
table that evening. "What is worrying you?"

"Nothing is worrying me, Dad."

"You are thinking of something. I can see that. Are you afraid your
electric rifle won't work as well as you hope, when Ned comes over
to try it?"

"No, it isn't that, Dad. But I may as well tell you, I guess. I've
been reading in the paper about a big elephant hunt in Africa, and
I--"

"That's enough, Tom! You needn't say any more," interrupted Mr.
Swift. "I can see which way the wind is blowing. You want to go to
Africa with your new rifle."

"Well, Dad, not exactly--that is--"

"Now, Tom, you needn't deny it," and Mr. Swift laughed. "Well, I
don't blame you a bit. You have been rather idle of late."

"I would like to go, Dad," admitted the young inventor, "only I'd
never think of it while you weren't well."

"Don't worry about me, Tom. Of course I will be lonesome while you
are gone, but don't let that stand in the way. If you want to go to
Africa, you may start to-morrow, and take your new rifle with you."

"The rifle part would be all right, Dad, but if I went I'd want to
take an airship along, and it will take me some little time to
finish the Black Hawk, as I have named my new craft."

"Well, there's no special hurry, is there?" asked Mr. Swift. "The
elephants in Africa are likely to stay there for some time. If you
want to go, why don't you get right to work on the Black Hawk and
make the trip? I'd like to go myself."

"I wish you would, Dad," exclaimed Tom eagerly.

"No, son, I couldn't think of it. I want to stay here and get well.
Then I am going to resume work on my wireless motor. Perhaps I'll
have it finished when you come back from Africa with an airship load
of elephants' tusks."

"Perhaps," admitted the young inventor. "Well, Dad, I'll think of
it. But now I'm going after my rifle, and--"

Tom was interrupted by a ring of the front-door bell, and Mrs.
Baggert, the housekeeper, who was almost like a mother to the youth,
went to answer it.

"It's Ned Newton, I guess," murmured Tom, and, a little later, his
chum entered the room.

"Oh, I guess I'm early," said Ned. "Haven't you had supper yet,
Tom?"

"Yes, we're just finished. Come on out and we'll try the gun."

"And practice shooting elephants," added Mr. Swift with a laugh, as
he mentioned to Ned the latest idea of Tom.

"Say! That would be great!" cried the bank clerk. "I wish I could
go!"

"Come along!" invited Tom cordially. "We'll have more fun than we
did in the caves of ice," for Ned had gone on the voyage to Alaska.

The two youths went out to the shed where the rifle gallery had been
built. The new electric weapon was out there, and Eradicate Sampson,
the colored man, who was a sort of servant and man-of-all-work about
the Swift household, had set up the scarecrow figure at the end of
the gallery.

"Now we'll try some shots," said Tom, as he took the gun out of the
case. "Just turn on a few more lights, will you, Mr. Jackson," and
the engineer, who was employed by Tom and his father to aid them in
their inventive work, did as requested.

The gallery was now brilliantly illuminated, with the reflectors
throwing the beams on the big stuffed figure, which, save for a
face, looked very much like a human being, standing at the end of
the gallery.

"I don't suppose you want to go down there and hold it, while I
shoot at it; do you, Rad?" asked Tom jokingly, as he prepared the
electric rifle for use.

"No indeedy, I don't!" cried Eradicate. "Yo'-all will hab t' scuse
me, Massa Tom. I think I'll be goin' now."

"What's your hurry?" asked Ned, as he saw the colored man hastily
preparing to leave the improvised gallery.

"I spects I'd better fro' down some mo' straw fo' a bed fo' my mule
Boomerang!" exclaimed Eradicate, as he hastily slid out of the door,
and shut it after him.

"Rad is nervous," remarked Tom. "He doesn't like this gun. Well, it
certainly does great execution."

"How does it work'" asked Ned, as he looked at the curious gun. The
electric weapon was not unlike an ordinary heavy rifle in appearance
save that the barrel was a little longer, and the stock larger in
every way. There were also a number of wheels, levers, gears and
gages on the stock.

"It works by electricity," explained Tom.

"That is, the force comes from a powerful current of stored
electricity."

"Oh, then you have storage batteries in the stock?"

"Not exactly. There are no batteries, but the current is a sort of
wireless kind. It is stored in a cylinder, just as compressed air or
gases are stored, and can be released as I need it."

"And when it's all gone, what do you do?"

"Make more power by means of a small dynamo."

"And does it shoot lead bullets?"

"Not at all. There are no bullets used."

"Then how does it kill?"

"By means of a concentrated charge of electricity which is shot from
the barrel with great force. You can't see it, yet it is there. It's
just as if you concentrated a charge of electricity of five thousand
volts into a small globule the size of a bullet. That flies through
space, strikes the object aimed at and--well, we'll see what it does
in a minute. Mr. Jackson, just put that steel plate up in front of
the scarecrow; will you?"

The engineer proceeded to put into place a section of steel armor-plate
before the stuffed figure.

"You don't mean to say you're going to shoot through that, do you?"
asked Ned in surprise.

"Surely. The electric bullets will pierce anything. They'll go
through a brick wall as easily as the x-rays do. That's one valuable
feature of my rifle. You don't have to see the object you aim at. In
fact you can fire through a house, and kill something on the other
side."

"I should think that would be dangerous."

"It would be, only I can calculate exactly, by means of an automatic
arrangement, just how far the charge of electricity will go. It
stops short just at the limit of the range, and is not effective
beyond that. Otherwise, if I did not limit it and if I fired at the
scarecrow, through the piece of steel, and the bullet hit the
figure, it would go on, passing through whatever else was in the
way, until its power was lost. I use the term 'bullet,' though as I
said, it isn't properly one."

"By Jove, Tom, it certainly is a dangerous weapon!"

"Yes, the range-limit idea is a new one. That's what I've been
working on lately. There are other features of the gun which I'll
explain later, particularly the power it has to shoot out luminous
bars of light. But now we'll see what it will do to the image."

Tom took his place at the end of the range, and began to adjust some
valves and levers. In spite of the fact that the gun was larger than
an ordinary rifle, it was not as heavy as the United States Army
weapon.

Tom aimed at the armor-plate, and, by means of an arrangement on the
rifle, he could tell exactly when he was pointing at the scarecrow,
even though he could not see it.

"Here she goes!" he suddenly exclaimed.

Ned watched his chum. The young inventor pressed a small button at
the side of the rifle barrel, about where the trigger should have
been. There was no sound, no smoke, no flame and not the slightest
jar.

Yet as Ned watched he saw the steel plate move slightly. The next
instant the scarecrow figure seemed to fly all to pieces. There was
a shower of straw, rags and old clothes, which fell in a shapeless
heap at the end of the range.

"Say. I guess you did for that fellow, all right!" exclaimed Ned.

"It looks so," admitted Tom, with a note of pride in his voice. "Now
we'll try another test."

As he laid aside his rifle in order to help Mr. Jackson shift the
steel plate there was a series of yells outside the shed.

"What's that?" asked Tom, in some alarm.

"Sounds like some one calling," answered Ned.

"It is," agreed Mr. Jackson. "Perhaps Eradicate's mule has gotten
loose. I guess we'd better--"

He did not finish, for the shouts increased in volume, and Tom and
Ned could hear some one yelling:

"I'll have the law on you for this! I'll have you arrested, Tom
Swift! What do you mean by trying to kill me? Where are you? Don't
try to hide away, now. You were trying to shoot me, and I'm not
going to have it!"

Some one pounded on the door of the shed.

"It's Barney Moker!" exclaimed Tom. "I wonder what can have
happened?"




CHAPTER III

A DIFFICULT TEST


Tom Swift opened the door of the improvised rifle gallery and looked
out. By the light of a full moon, which shone down from a cloudless
sky, he saw a man standing at the portal. The man's face was
distorted with rage, and he shook his fist at the young inventor.

"What do you mean by shooting at me?" he demanded. "What do you
mean, I say? The idea of scaring honest folks out of their wits, and
making 'em think the end of the world has come! What do you mean by
it? Why don't you answer me? I say, Tom Swift, why don't you answer
me?"

"Because you don't give me a chance, Mr. Moker," replied our hero.

"I want to know why you shot at me? I demand to know!" and Mr.
Moker, who was a sort of miserly town character, living all alone in
a small house, just beyond Tom's home, again shook his fist almost
in the lad's face. "Why don't you tell me? Why don't you tell me?"
he shouted.

"I will, if you give me a chance!" fairly exploded Tom. "If you can
be cool for five minutes, and come inside and tell me what happened
I'll be glad to answer any of your questions, Mr. Moker. I didn't
shoot at you."

"Yes, you did! You tried to shoot a hole through me!"

"Tell me about it?" suggested Tom, as the excited man calmed down
somewhat. "Are you hurt?"

"No, but it isn't your fault that I'm not. You tried hard enough to
hurt me. Here I am, sitting at my table reading, and, all at once
something goes through the side of the house, whizzes past my ear,
makes my hair fairly stand up on end, and goes outside the other
side of the house. What kind of bullets do you use, Tom Swift?
that's what I want to know. They went through the side of my house,
and never left a mark. I demand to know what kind they are."

"I'll tell you, if you'll only give me a chance," went on Tom
wearily. "How do you know it was me shooting?"

"How do I know? Why, doesn't the end of this shooting gallery of
yours point right at my house? Of course it does; you can't deny
it!"

Tom did not attempt to, and Mr. Moker went on:

"Now what do you mean by it?"

"If any of the bullets from my electric gun went near you, it was a
mistake, and I'm sorry for it," said Tom.

"Well, they did, all right," declared the excited man. "They went
right past my ear."

"I don't see how they could," declared Tom. "I was trying my new
electric rifle, but I had the limit set for two hundred feet, the
length of the gallery. That is, the electrical discharge couldn't go
beyond that distance."

"I don't know what it was, but it went through the side of my house
all the same," insisted Mr. Moker. "It didn't make a hole, but it
scorched the wall paper a little."

"I don't see how it could," declared Tom. "It couldn't possibly have
gone over two hundred feet with the gage set for that distance." He
paused suddenly, and hurried over to where he had placed his gun.
Catching up the weapon he looked at the gage dial. Then he uttered
an exclamation.

"I'm sorry to admit that you are right, Mr. Moker!" he said finally.
"I made a mistake. The gage is set for a thousand feet instead of
two hundred. I forgot to change it. The charge, after passing
through the steel plate, and the scarecrow figure, destroying the
latter, went on, and shot through the side of your house."

"Ha! I knew you were trying to shoot me!" exclaimed the still angry
man. "I'll have the law on you for this!"

"Oh, that's all nonsense!" broke in Ned Newton. "Everybody knows Tom
Swift wouldn't try to shoot you, or any one else, Mr. Moker."

"Then why did he shoot at me?"

"That was a mistake," explained Tom, "and I apologize to you for
it."

"Humph! A lot of good that would do me, if I'd been killed!"
muttered the miser. "I'm going to sue you for this. You might have
put me in my grave."

"Impossible!" exclaimed Tom.

"Why impossible?" demanded the visitor.

"Because I had so set the rifle that almost the entire force of the
electrical bullet was expended in blowing apart the scarecrow figure
I made for a test," explained Tom. "All that passed through your
house was a small charge, and, if it HAD hit you there would have
been no more than a little shock, such as you would feel in taking
hold of an electric battery."

"How do I know this?" asked the man cunningly. "You say so, but for
all I know you may have wanted to kill me."

"Why?" asked Tom, trying not to laugh.

"Oh, so you might get some of my money. Of course I ain't got none,"
the miser went on quickly, "but folks thinks I've got a lot, and I
have to be on the lookout all the while, or they'd murder me for
it."

"I wouldn't," declared the young inventor. "It was a mistake. Only
part of the spent charge passed near you. Why, if it had been a
powerful charge you would never have been able to come over here. I
set the main charge to go off inside the scarecrow, and it did so,
as you can see by looking at what's left of it," and he pointed to
the pile of clothes and rags.

"How do I know this?" insisted the miser with a leer at the two
lads.

"Because if the charge had gone off either before or after it passed
through the figure, it would not have caused such havoc of the cloth
and straw," explained Tom. "First the charge would have destroyed
the steel plate, which it passed through without even denting it.
Why, look here, I will now fire the rifle at short range, and set it
to destroy the plate. See what happens."

He quickly adjusted the weapon, and aimed it at the plate, which,
had again been set up on the range. This time Tom was careful to set
the gage so that even a small part of the spent charge would not go
outside the gallery.

The young inventor pressed the button, and instantly the heavy steel
plate was bent, torn and twisted as though a small sized cannon ball
had gone through it.

"That's what the rifle will do at short range," said Tom. "Don't
worry, Mr. Moker, you didn't have a narrow escape. You were in no
danger at all, though I apologize for the fright I caused you."

"Humph! That's an easy way to get out of it!" exclaimed the miser.
"I believe I could sue you for damages, anyhow. Look at my scorched
wall paper."

"Oh, I'll pay for that," said Tom quickly, for he did not wish to
have trouble with the unpleasant man. "Will ten dollars be enough?"
He knew that the whole room could be repapered for that, and he did
not believe the wall-covering was sufficiently damaged for such work
to be necessary.

"Well, if you'll make it twelve dollars, I won't say anything more
about it," agreed the miser craftily, "though it's worth thirteen
dollars, if it is a penny. Give me twelve dollars, Tom Swift, and I
won't prosecute you."

"All right, twelve dollars it shall be," responded the young
inventor, passing over the money, and glad to be rid of the
unpleasant character.

"And after this, just fire that gun of yours the other way,"
suggested Mr. Moker as he went out, carefully folding the bills
which Tom had handed him.

"Hum! that was rather queer," remarked Ned, after a pause.

"It sure was," agreed his chum. "This rifle will do more than I
thought it would. I'll have to be more careful. I was sure I set the
gage for two hundred feet. I'll have to invent some automatic
attachment to prevent it being discharged when the gage is set
wrong." Let us state here that Tom did this, and never had another
accident.

"Well, does this end the test?" asked Ned.

"No, indeed. I want you to try it, while I look on," spoke Tom. "We
haven't any more stuffed figures to fire at, but I'll set up some
targets. Come on, try your luck at a shot."

"I'm afraid I might disturb Mr. Moker, or some of the neighbors."

"No danger. I've got it adjusted right now. Come on, see if you can
shatter this steel target," and Tom set up a small one at the end of
the range.

Then, having properly fixed the weapon, Tom handed it to his chum,
and, taking his place in a protected part of the gallery, prepared
to watch the effect of the shot.

"Let her go!" cried Tom, and Ned pressed the button.

The effect was wonderful. Though there was no noise, smoke nor
flame, the steel plate seemed to crumple up, and collapse as if it
had been melted in the fire. There was a jagged hole through the
center, but some frail boards back of it were not even splintered.

"Good shot!" cried Tom enthusiastically. "I had the distance gage
right that time."

"You sure did," agreed Ned. "The electric bullet stopped as soon as
it did its work on the plate. What's next?"

"I'm going to try a difficult test," explained Tom. "You know I said
the gun would shoot luminous charges?"

"Yes."

"Well, I'm going to try that, now. I wish we had another image to
shoot at, but I'll take a big dry-goods box, and make believe it's
an elephant. Now, this is going to be a hard test, such as we'd meet
with, if we were hunting in Africa. I want you to help me."

"What am I to do?" asked Ned.

"I want you to go outside," explained Tom, "set up a dry-goods box
against the side of the little hill back of the shed, and not tell
me where you put it. Then I'll go out, and, by means of the luminous
charge, I'll locate the box, set the distance gage, and destroy it."

"Well, you can see it anyhow, in the moonlight," objected Ned.

"No, the moon is under a cloud now," explained Tom, looking out of a
window. "It's quite dark, and will give me just the test I want for
my new electric rifle."

"But won't it be dangerous, firing in the dark? Suppose you misjudge
the distance, and the bullet, or charge, files off and hits some
one?"

"It can't. I'll set the distance gage before I shoot. But if I
should happen to make a mistake the charge will go into the side of
the hill, and spend itself there. There is no danger. Go ahead, and
set up the box, and then come and tell me. Mr. Jackson will help
you."

Ned and the engineer left the gallery. As Tom had said, it was very
dark now, and if Tom could see in the night to hit a box some
distance away, his weapon would be all that he claimed for it.

"This will do," said the engineer, as he pointed to a box, one of
several piled up outside the shed. The two could hardly see to make
their way along, carrying it to the foot of the hill, and they
stumbled several times. But at last it was in position, and then Ned
departed to call Tom, and have him try the difficult test--that of
hitting an object in the dark.




CHAPTER IV

BIG TUSKS WANTED


"Well, are you all ready for me?" asked the young inventor, as he
took up his curious weapon, and followed Ned out into the yard. It
was so dark that they had fairly to stumble along.

"Yes, we're ready," answered Ned. "And you'll be a good one, Tom, if
you do this stunt. Now stand here," he went on, as he indicated a
place as well as he could in the dark. "The box is somewhere in that
direction," and he waved his hand vaguely. "I'm not going to tell
you any more, and let's see you find it."

"Oh, I will, all right--or, rather, my electric rifle will,"
asserted Tom.

The inventor of the curious and terrible weapon took his position.
Behind him stood Ned and Mr. Jackson, and just before Tom was ready
to fire, his father came stalking through the darkness, calling to
them.

"Are you there, Tom?"

"Yes Dad, is anything the matter?"

"No, but I thought I'd like to see what luck you have. Rad was
saying you were going to have a test in the dark."

"I'm about ready for it," replied Tom. "I'm going to blow up a box
that I can't see. You know how it's done, Dad, for you helped me in
perfecting the luminous charge, but it's going to be something of a
novelty to the others. Here we go, now!"

Tom raised his rifle, and aimed it in the dark. Ned Newton,
straining his eyes to see, was sure the young inventor was pointing
the gun at least twenty feet to one side of where the box was
located, but he said nothing, for from experiences in the past, he
realized that Tom knew what he was doing.

There was a little clicking sound, as the youth moved some gear
wheel on his gun. Then there came a faint crackling noise, like some
distant wireless apparatus beginning to flash a message through
space.

Suddenly a little ball of purplish light shot through the darkness
and sped forward like some miniature meteor. It shed a curious
illuminating glow all about, and the ground, and the objects on it
were brought into relief as by a lightning flash.

An instant later the light increased in intensity, and seemed to
burst like some piece of aerial fireworks. There was a bright glare,
in which Ned and the others could see the various buildings about
the shed. They could see each other's faces, and they looked pale
and ghastly in the queer glow. They could see the box, brought into
bold relief, where Ned and the engineer had placed it.

Then, before the light had died away, they witnessed a curious
sight. The heavy wooden box seemed to dissolve, to collapse and to
crumple up like one of paper, and ere the last rays of the
illuminating bullet faded, the watchers saw the splinters of wood
fall back with a clatter in a little heap on the spot where the
dry-goods case had been.

A silence followed, and the darkness was all the blacker by contrast
with the intense light. At length Tom spoke, and he could not keep
from his voice a note of triumph.

"Well, did I do it?" he asked.

"You sure did!" exclaimed Ned heartily.

"Fine!" cried Mr. Swift.

"Golly! I wouldn't gib much fo' de hide ob any burglar what comed
around heah!" muttered Eradicate Sampson. "Dat box am knocked clean
into nuffiness, Massa Tom."

"That's what I wanted to do," explained the lad. "And I guess this
will end the test for tonight."

"But I don't exactly understand it," spoke Ned, as they all moved
toward the Swift home, Eradicate going to the stable to see how his
mule was. "Do you have two kinds of bullets, Tom, one for night and
one for the daytime?"

"No," answered Tom, "there is only one kind of bullet, and, as I
have said, that isn't a bullet at all. That is, you can't see it, or
handle it, but you can feel it. Strictly speaking, it is a
concentrated discharge of wireless electricity directed against a
certain object. You can't see it any more than you can see a
lightning bolt, though that is sometimes visible as a ball of fire.
My electric rifle bullets are similar to a discharge of lightning,
except that they are invisible."

"But we saw the one just now," objected Ned.

"No, you didn't see the bullet," said Tom.

"You saw the illuminating flash which I send out just before I fire,
to reveal the object I am to hit. That is another part of my rifle
and is only used at night."

"You see I shoot out a ball of electrical fire which will disclose
the target, or the enemy at whom I am firing. As soon as that is
discharged the rifle automatically gets ready to shoot the electric
charge, and I have only to press the proper button, and the
'bullet,' as I call it, follows on the heels of the ball of light.
Do you see?"

"Perfectly," exclaimed Ned with a laugh. "What a gun that would be
for hunting, since most all wild beasts come out only at night."

"That was one object in making this invention," said Tom. "I only
hope I get a chance to use it now."

"I thought you were going to Africa after elephants," spoke Mr.
Swift.

"Well, I did think of it," admitted Tom, "but I haven't made any
definite plans. But come into the house, Ned, and I'll show you more
in detail how my rifle works."

Thereupon the two chums spent some time going into the mysteries of
the new weapon. Mr. Swift and Mr. Jackson were also much interested,
for, though they had seen the gun previously and had helped Tom
perfect it, they had not yet tired of discussing its merits.

Ned stayed quite late that night, and promised to come over the next
day, and watch Tom do some more shooting.

"I'll show you how to use it, too," promised the young inventor, and
he was as good as his word, initiating Ned into the mysteries of the
electric rifle, and showing him to store the charges of death-dealing
electricity in the queer-looking stock.

For a week after that Tom and Ned practiced with the terrible gun,
taking care not to have any more mishaps like the one that had
marked the first night. They were both good shots with ordinary
weapons and it was not long before they had equaled their record
with the new instrument.

It was one warm afternoon, when Tom was out in the meadow at one
side of his house, practicing with his rifle on some big boxes he
had set up for targets, that he saw an elderly man standing close to
the fence watching him. When Tom blew to pieces a particularly large
packing-case, standing a long distance away from it, the stranger
called to the youth.

"I beg your pardon," he said, "but is that a dynamite gun you are
using?"

"No, it's an electric rifle," was the answer.

"Would you mind telling me something about it?" went on the elderly
man, and as Tom's weapon was now fully protected by patents, the
young inventor cordially invited the stranger to come nearer and see
how it worked.

"That's the greatest thing I ever saw!" exclaimed the man
enthusiastically when Tom had blown up another box, and had told of
the illumination for night firing. "The most wonderful weapon I ever
heard of! What a gun it would be in my business."

"What is your trade?" asked Tom curiously, for he had noted that the
man, while aged, was rugged and hearty, and his skin was tanned a
leathery brown, showing that he was much in the open air.

"I'm a hunter," was the reply, "a hunter of big game, principally
elephants, hippos and rhinoceroses. I've just finished a season in
Africa, and I'm going back there again soon. I came on to New York
to get a new elephant gun. I've got a sister living over in
Waterford, and I've been visiting her. I went out for a stroll
to-day, and I came farther than I intended. That's how I happened to be
passing here."

"A sister in Waterford, eh?" mused Tom, wondering whether the
elephant hunter had met Mr. Damon. "And how soon are you going hack
to Africa, Mr.--er--" and Tom hesitated.

"Durban is my name, Alexander Durban," said the old man. "Why, I am
to start back in a few weeks. I've got an order for a pair of big
elephant tusks--the largest I can get for a wealthy New York man,--and
I'm anxious to fulfil the contract. The game isn't what it once
was. There's more competition and the elephants are scarcer. So I've
got to hustle."

"I got me a new gun. But my! it's nothing to what yours is. With
that weapon I could do about as I pleased. I could do night hunting,
which is hard in the African jungle. Then I wouldn't have any
trouble getting the big tusks I'm after. I could get a pair of them,
and live easy the rest of my life. Yes, I wouldn't ask anything
better than a gun like yours. But I s'pose they cost like the
mischief?" He looked a question at Tom.

"This is the only one there is," was the lad's answer. "But I am
very glad to have met you, Mr. Durban. Won't you come into the
house? I'm sure my father will be glad to see you, and I have
something I'd like to talk to you about," and Tom, with many wild
ideas in his head, led the old elephant hunter toward the house.

The dream of the young inventor might come true after all.




CHAPTER V

RUSH WORK


Mr. Swift made the African hunter warmly welcome, and listened with
pride to the words of praise Mr. Durban bestowed on Tom regarding
the rifle.

"Yes, my boy has certainly done wonders along the inventive line,"
said Mr. Swift.

"Not half as much as you have, Dad," interrupted the lad, for Tom
was a modest youth.

"You should see his sky racer," went on the old inventor.

"Sky racer? What's that?" asked Mr. Durban. "Is it another kind of
gun or cannon?"

"It's an aeroplane--an airship," explained Mr. Swift.

"An airship!" exclaimed the old elephant hunter. "Say, you don't
mean that you make balloons, do you?"

"Well, they're not exactly balloons," replied Tom, as he briefly
explained what an aeroplane was, for Mr. Durban, having been in the
wilds of the jungle so much, had had very little chance to see the
wonders and progress of civilization.

"They are better than balloons," went on Tom, "for they can go where
you want them to."

"Say! That's the very thing!" cried the old hunter enthusiastically.
"If there's one thing more than another that is needed in hunting in
Africa it's an airship. The travel through the jungle is something
fierce, and that, more than anything else, interferes with my work.
I can't cover ground enough, and when I do get on the track of a
herd of elephants, and they get away, it's sometimes a week before I
can catch up to them again."

"For, in spite of their size, elephants can travel very fast, and
once they get on the go, nothing can stop them. An airship would be
the very thing to hunt elephants with in Africa--an airship and this
electric rifle. I wonder why you haven't thought of going, Tom
Swift."

"I have thought of it," answered the young inventor, "and that's why
I asked you in. I want to talk about it."

"Do you mean you want to go?" demanded the old man eagerly.

"I certainly do!"

"Then I'm your man! Say, Tom Swift, I'd be proud to have you go to
Africa with me. I'd be proud to have you a member of my hunting
party, and, though I don't like to boast, still if you'll ask any of
the big-game people they'll tell you that not every one can
accompany Aleck Durban."

Tom realized that he was speaking to an authority and a most
desirable companion, should he go to Africa, and he was very glad of
the chance that had made him acquainted with the veteran hunter.

"Will you go with me?" asked Mr. Durban. "You and your electric gun
and your airship? Will you come to Africa to hunt elephants, and
help me get the big tusks I'm after?"

"I will!" exclaimed Tom.

"Then we'll start at once. There's no need of delaying here any
longer."

"Oh, but I haven't an airship ready," said the young inventor. The
face of the old hunter expressed his disappointment.

"Then we'll have to give up the scheme," he said ruefully.

"Not at all," Tom told him. "I have all the material on hand for
building a new airship. I have had it in mind for some time, and I
have done some work on it. I stopped it to perfect my electric
rifle, but, now that is done, I'll tackle the Black Hawk again, and
rush that to completion."

"The Black Hawk?" repeated Mr. Durban, wonderingly.

"Yes, that's what I will name my new craft. The RED CLOUD was
destroyed, and so I thought I'd change the color this time, and
avoid bad luck."

"Good!" exclaimed the hunter. "When do you think you can have it
finished?"

"Oh, possibly in a month--perhaps sooner, and then we will go to
Africa and hunt elephants!"

"Bless my ivory paper cutter!" exclaimed a voice in the hall just
outside the library. "Bless my fingernails! But who's talking about
going to Africa?"

The old hunter looked at Tom and his father in surprise, but the
young inventor laughing and going to the door, called out:

"Come on in, Mr. Damon. I didn't hear you ring. There is some one
here from your town."

"Is it my wife?" asked the odd gentleman who was always blessing
something. "She said she was going to her mother's to spend a few
weeks, and so I thought I'd come over here and see if you had
anything new on the program. The first thing I hear is that you are
going to Africa. And so there's some one from Waterford in there,
eh? Is it my wife?"

"No," answered Tom with another laugh. "Come on in Mr. Damon."

"Bless my toothpick!" exclaimed the odd gentleman, as he saw the
grizzled elephant hunter sitting between Tom and Mr. Swift. "I have
seen you somewhere before, my dear sir."

"Yes," admitted Mr. Durban, "if you're from Waterford you have
probably seen me traveling about the streets there. I'm stopping
with my sister, Mrs. Douglass, but I can't stand it to be in the
house much, so I'm out of doors, wandering about a good bit of the
time. I miss my jungle. But we'll soon be in Africa, Tom Swift and
me."

"Is it possible, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon. "Bless my diamond mines! but
what are you going to do next?"

"It's hard to say," was the answer. "But you came just in time. Mr.
Damon. I'm going to rush work on the Black Hawk, my newest airship,
and we'll leave for elephant land inside of a month, taking my new
electric rifle along. Will you come?"

"Bless my penknife! I never thought of such a thing. I--I--guess--no,
I don't know about it--yes, I'll go!" he suddenly exclaimed.
"I'll go! Hurrah for the elephants!" and he jumped up and shook
hands in turn with Mr. Durban, to whom he had been formally
introduced, and with Tom and Mr. Swift.

"Then it's all settled but the details," declared the youth, "and
now I'll call in Mr. Jackson, and we'll talk about how soon we can
have the airship ready."

"My, but you folks are almost as speedy as a herd of the big
elephants themselves!" exclaimed Mr. Durban, and with the advent of
the engineer the talk turned to things mechanical among Tom and Mr.
Jackson and Mr. Damon, while Mr. Durban told Mr. Swift hunting
stories which the old inventor greatly enjoyed.

The next day Tom engaged two machinists who had worked for him
building airships before, and in the next week rush work began on
the new Black Hawk. Meanwhile Mr. Durban was a frequent visitor at
Tom's home, where he learned to use the new rifle, declaring it was
even more wonderful than he had at first supposed.

"That will get the elephants!" he exclaimed. It did, as you shall
soon learn, and it also was the means of saving several lives in the
wilds of the African jungle.




CHAPTER VI

NEWS FROM ANDY


Tom Swift's former airship, the Red Cloud, had been such a fine
craft, and had done such good service that he thought, in building a
successor, that he could do no better than to follow the design of
the skyship which had been destroyed in the ice caves. But, on
talking with the old elephant hunter, and learning something of the
peculiarities of the African jungle the young inventor decided on
certain changes.

In general the Black Hawk would be on the lines of the Red Cloud but
it would be smaller and lighter and would also be capable of swifter
motion.

"You want it so that it will rise and descend quickly and at sharp
angles," said Mr. Durban.

"Why," inquired Tom.

"Because in Africa, at least in the part where we will go, there are
wide patches of jungle and forest, with here and there big open
places. If you are skimming along close to the ground, in an open
place, in pursuit of a herd of elephants and they should suddenly
plunge into the forest, you would want to be able to rise above the
trees quickly."

"That's so," admitted Tom. "Then I'll have to use a smaller gas bag
than we had on the other ship, for the air resistance to that big
one made us go slowly at times."

"Will it be as safe with a small bag?" Mr. Damon wanted to know.

"Yes, for I will use a more powerful gas, so that we will be more
quickly lifted," said the young inventor. "I will also retain the
aeroplane feature, so that the Black Hawk will be a combined biplane
and dirigible balloon. But it will have many new features. I have
the plans all drawn for a new style of gas generating apparatus, and
I think it can be made in time."

There were busy days about the Swift home. Mrs. Baggert, the
housekeeper, was in despair. She said the good meals she got ready
were wasted, because no one would come to table when they were
ready. She would ring the bell, and announce that dinner would be
served in five minutes.

Then Tom would shout from his workshop that he could not leave until
he had inserted a certain lever in place. Mr. Jackson would
positively decline to sit down until he had screwed fast some part
of a machine. Even Mr. Swift, who, because of his recent illness,
was not allowed to do much, would often delay his meal to test some
new style of gears.

As for Mr. Damon, it was to be expected that he would be eccentric
as he always was. He was not an expert mechanic, but he knew
something of machinery and was of considerable help to Tom in the
rush work on the airship. He would hear the dinner bell ring, and
would exclaim:

"Bless my napkin ring! I can't come now. I have to fix up this
electrical register first."

And so it would go. Eradicate and Boomerang, his mule, were the only
ones who ate regularly, and they always insisted on stopping at
exactly twelve o'clock to partake of the noonday meal.

"'Cause ef I didn't," explained the colored man, "dat contrary mule
ob mine would lay down in de dust ob de road an' not move a step,
lessen' he got his oats. So dat's why we has t' eat, him an' me."

"Well, I'm glad there's some one who's got sense," murmured Mrs.
Baggert. Eradicate and Boomerang were of great service in the
hurried work that followed, for the colored man in his cart brought
from town, or from the freight depot, many things that Tom needed.

The young inventor was very enthusiastic about his proposed trip,
and at night, after a hard day's work in the shop, he would read
books on African hunting, or he would sit and listen to the stories
told by Mr. Durban. And the latter knew how to tell hunting tales,
for he had been long in his dangerous calling, and had had many
narrow escapes.

"And there are other dangers than from elephants and wild beasts in
Africa," he said.

"Bless my toothbrush!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Do you mean cannibals,
Mr. Durban?"

"Some cannibals," was the reply. "But they're not the worst. I mean
the red pygmies. I hope we don't get into their clutches."

"Red pygmies!" repeated Tom, wonderingly.

"Yes, they're a tribe of little creatures, about three feet high,
covered with thick reddish hair, who live in the central part of
Africa, near some of the best elephant-hunting ground. They are
wild, savage and ferocious, and what they lack individually in
strength, they make up in numbers. They're like little red apes, and
woe betide the unlucky hunter who falls into their merciless hands.
They treat him worse than the cannibals do."

"Then we'll look out for them," said Tom. "But I fancy my electric
rifle will make them give us a wide berth."

"It's a great gun," admitted the old hunter with a shake of his
head, "but those red pygmies are terrible creatures. I hope we don't
get them on our trail. But tell me, Tom, how are you coming on with
the airship? for I don't know much about mechanics, and to me it
looks as if it would never be put together. It's like one of those
queer puzzles I've seen 'em selling in the streets of London."

"Oh, it's nearer ready than it looks to be," said Tom. "We'll have
it assembled, and ready for a trial in about two weeks more."

Work on the Black Hawk was rushed more than ever in the next few
days, another extra machinist being engaged. Then the craft began to
assume shape and form, and with the gas bag partly inflated and the
big planes stretching out from either side, it began to look
something like the ill-fated Red Cloud.

"It's going to be a fine ship!" cried Tom enthusiastically, one day,
as he went to the far side of the ship to get a perspective view of
it. "We'll make good time in this."

"Are you going to sail all the way to Africa--across the ocean--in
her?" asked Mr. Durban, in somewhat apprehensive tones.

"Oh, no," replied Tom. "I believe she would be capable of taking us
across the ocean, but there is no need of running any unnecessary
risks. I want to get her safely to Africa, and have her do stunts in
elephant land."

"Then what are your plans?" asked the hunter.

"We'll put her together here," said Tom, "give her a good try-out to
see that she works well, and then pack her up for shipment to the
African coast by steamer. We'll go on the same ship, and when we
arrive we'll put the Black Hawk together again, and set sail for the
interior."

"Good idea," commented Mr. Durban. "Now, if you've no objections,
I'm going to do a little practice with the electric rifle."

"Go ahead," assented Tom. "There comes Ned Newton; he'll be glad of
a chance for a few shots while I work on this new propeller motor.
It just doesn't suit me."

The bank clerk, who had arranged to go to Africa with Tom, was seen
advancing toward the aeroplane shed. In his hand Ned held a paper,
and as he saw Tom he called out:

"Have you heard the news?"

"What news?" inquired the young inventor.

"About Andy Foger. He and his aeroplane are lost!"

"Lost!" cried Tom, for in spite of the mean way the bully had
treated him our hero did not wish him any harm.

"Well, not exactly lost," went on Ned, as he held out the paper to
Tom, "but he and his sky-craft have disappeared."

"Disappeared?"

"Yes. You know he and that German, Mr. Landbacher, went over to
Europe to give some aviation exhibitions. Well, I see by this paper
that they went to Egypt, and were doing a high-flying stunt there,
when a gale sprang up, they lost control of the aeroplane and it was
swept out of sight."

"In which direction; out to sea?"

"No, toward the interior of Africa."

"Toward the interior of Africa!" cried Tom. "And that's where we're
going in a couple of weeks. Andy in Africa!"

"'Maybe we'll see him there," suggested Ned.

"Well, I certainly hope we do not!" exclaimed Tom, as he turned back
to his work, with an undefinable sense of fear in his heart.




CHAPTER VII

THE BLACK HAWK FLIES


It was with no little surprise that the news of the plight that was
said to have befallen Andy Foger was received by Tom and his
associates. The newspaper had quite an account of the affair, and,
even allowing the usual discount for the press dispatches, it looked
as if the former bully was in rather distressing circumstances.

"He won't have to be carried very far into Africa to be in a bad
country," said the old hunter. "Of course, some parts of the
continent are all right, and for me, I like it all, where there's
hunting to be had. But I guess your young friend Foger won't care
for it."

"He's no friend of ours," declared Ned, as Tom was reading the
newspaper account. "Still, I don't wish him any bad luck, and I do
hope he doesn't become the captive of the red pygmies."

"So do I," echoed the old hunter fervently. There was no news of
Andy in the papers the next day, though there were cable dispatches
speculating on what might have happened to him and the airship. In
Shopton the dispatches created no little comment, and it was said
that Mr. Foger was going to start for Africa at once to rescue his
son. This, however, could not be confirmed.

Meanwhile Tom and his friends were very busy over the Black Hawk.
Every hour saw the craft nearer completion, for the young inventor
had had much experience in this sort of work now, and knew just how
to proceed.

To Mr. Damon were intrusted certain things which he could well
attend to, and though he frequently stopped to bless his necktie or
his shoelaces, still he got along fairly well.

There would be no necessity of purchasing supplies in this country,
for they could get all they needed in the African city of Majumba,
on the western coast, where they planned to land. There the airship
would be put together, stocked with provisions and supplies, and
they would begin their journey inland. They planned to head for Buka
Meala, crossing the Congo River, and then go into the very interior
of the heart of the dark continent.

As we have described in detail, in the former books of this series,
the construction of Tom Swift's airship, the Red Cloud, and as the
Black Hawk was made in a similar manner to that, we will devote but
brief space to it now. As the story proceeds, and the need arises
for a description of certain features, we will give them to you, so
that you will have a clear idea of what a wonderful craft it was.

Sufficient to say that there was a gas bag, made of a light but
strong material, and capable of holding enough vapor, of a new and
secret composition, to lift the airship with its load. This was the
dirigible-balloon feature of the craft, and with the two powerful
propellers, fore and aft (in which particular the Black Hawk
differed from the Red Cloud which had two forward propellers);--with
these two powerful wooden screws, as we have said, the new ship
could travel swiftly without depending on the wing planes.

But as there is always a possibility of the gas bag being punctured,
or the vapor suddenly escaping from one cause or another, Tom did
not depend on this alone to keep his craft afloat. It was a perfect
aeroplane, and with the gas bag entirely empty could be sent
scudding along at any height desired. To enable it to rise by means
of the wings, however, it was necessary to start it in motion along
the ground, and for this purpose wheels were provided.

There was a large body or car to the craft, suspended from beneath
the gas bag, and in this car were the cabins, the living, sleeping
and eating apartments, the storerooms and the engine compartment.

This last was a marvel of skill, for it contained besides the gas
machine, and the motor for working the propellers, dynamos, gages,
and instruments for telling the speed and height, motors for doing
various pieces of work, levers, wheels, cogs, gears, tanks for
storing the lifting gas, and other features of interest.

There were several staterooms for the use of the young captain and
the passengers, an observation and steering tower, a living-room,
where they could all assemble as the ship was sailing through the
air, and a completely equipped kitchen.

This last was Mr. Damon's special pride, as he was a sort of cook,
and he liked nothing better than to get up a meal when the craft was
two or three miles high, and scudding along at seventy-five miles an
hour.

In addition there were to be taken along many scientific
instruments, weapons of defense and offense, in addition to the
electric rifle, and various other objects which will be spoken of in
due time.

"Well," remarked Tom Swift one afternoon, following a hard day's
work in the shop, "I think, if all goes well, and we have good
weather, I'll give the Black Hawk a trial tomorrow."

"Do you think it will fly?" asked Ned.

"There is no telling," was the answer of the young inventor. "These
things are more or less guesswork, even when you make two exactly
alike. As far as I can tell, we have now a better craft than the Red
Cloud was, but it remains to be seen how she will behave."

They worked late that night, putting the finishing touches on the
Black Hawk, and in the morning the new airship was wheeled out of
the shed, and placed on the level starting ground, ready for the
trial flight.

Only the bare machinery was in her, as yet, and the gas bag had not
been inflated as Tom wanted to try the plane feature first. But the
vapor machine was all ready to start generating the gas whenever it
was needed. Nor was the Black Hawk painted and decorated as she
would be when ready to be sent to Africa. On the whole, she looked
rather crude as she rested there on the bicycle wheels, awaiting the
starting of the big propellers. As the stores and supplies were not
yet in, Tom took aboard, in addition to Mr. Damon, Ned, his father,
Mr. Jackson and Mr. Durban, some bags of sand to represent the extra
weight that would have to be carried.

"If she'll rise with this load she'll do," announced the young
inventor, as he went carefully over the craft, looking to see that
everything was in shape.

"If she does rise it will be a new experience for me," spoke the old
elephant hunter. "I've never been in an airship before. It doesn't
seem possible that we can get up in the air with this machine."

"Maybe we won't," spoke Tom, who was always a little diffident about
a new piece of machinery.

"Well, if it doesn't do it the first time, it will the second, or
the fifty-second," declared Ned Newton. "Tom Swift doesn't give up
until he succeeds."

"Stop it! You'll make me blush!" cried the Black Hawk's owner as he
tried the different gages and levers to see that they were all
right.

After what seemed like a long time he gave the word for those who
were to make the trial trip to take their places. They did so, and
then, with Mr. Jackson, Tom went to the engine room. There was a
little delay, due to the fact that some adjustment was necessary on
the main motor. But at last it was fixed.

"Are you all ready?" called Tom.

"All ready," answered Mr. Damon. The old elephant hunter sat in a
chair, nervously gripping the arms, and with a grim look on his
tanned face. Mr. Swift was cool, as Ned, for they had made many
trips in the air. Outside were Eradicate Sampson and Mrs. Baggert.

"Here we go!" suddenly cried Tom, and he yanked over the lever that
started the main motor and propellers. The Black Hawk trembled
throughout her entire length. She shivered and shook. Faster and
faster whirled the great wooden screws. The motor hummed and
throbbed.

Slowly the Black Hawk moved across the ground. Then she gathered
speed. Now she was fairly rushing over the level space. Tom Swift
tilted the elevation rudder, and with a suddenness that was
startling, at least to the old elephant hunter, the new airship shot
upward on a steep slant.

"The Black Hawk flies!" yelled Ned Newton. "Now for elephant land
and the big tusks!"

"Yes, and perhaps for the red pygmies, too," added Tom in a low
voice. Then he gave his whole attention to the management of his new
machine, which was rapidly mounting upward, with a speed rivalling
that of his former big craft.




CHAPTER VIII

OFF FOR AFRICA


Higher and higher went the Black Hawk, far above the earth, until
the old elephant hunter, looking down, said in a voice which he
tried to make calm and collected, but which trembled in spite of
himself:

"Of course I'm not an expert at this game, Tom Swift, but it looks
to me as if we'd never get down. Don't you think we're high enough?"

"For the time being, yes," answered the young inventor. "I didn't
think she'd climb so far without the use of the gas. She's doing
well."

"Bless my topknot, yes!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "She beats the Red
Cloud, Tom. Try her on a straight-away course."

Which the youth did, pointing the nose of the craft along parallel
to the surface of the earth, and nearly a mile above it. Then,
increasing the speed of the motor, and with the big propellers
humming, they made fast time.

The old elephant hunter grew more calm as he saw that the airship
did not show any inclination to fall, and he noted that Tom and the
others not only knew how to manage it, but took their flight as much
a matter of course as if they were in an automobile skimming along
on the surface of the ground.

Tom put his craft through a number of evolutions, and when he found
that she was in perfect control as an aeroplane, he started the gas
machine, filled the big black bag overhead, and, when it was
sufficiently buoyant, he shut off the motor, and the Black Hawk
floated along like a balloon.

"That's what we'll do if our power happens to give out when we get
over an African jungle, with a whole lot of wild elephants down
below, and a forest full of the red pygmies waiting for us,"
explained Tom to Mr. Durban.

"And I guess you'll need to do it, too," answered the hunter. "I
don't know which I fear worse, the bad elephants wild with rage, as
they get some times, or the little red men who are as strong as
gorillas, and as savage as wolves. It would be all up with us if we
got into their hands. But I think this airship will be just what we
need in Africa. I'd have been able to get out of many a tight place
if I had had one on my last trip."

While the Black Hawk hung thus, up the air, not moving, save as the
wind blew her, Tom with his father and Mr. Jackson made an
inspection of the machinery to find out whether it had been strained
any. They found that it had worked perfectly, and soon the craft was
in motion again, her nose this time being pointed toward the earth.
Tom let out some of the gas, and soon the airship was on the ground
in front of the shed she had so recently left.

"She's all right," decided the young inventor after a careful
inspection. "I'll give her a couple more trials, put on the
finishing touches and then we'll be ready for our trip to Africa.
Have you got everything arranged to go, Ned?"

"Sure. I have a leave of absence from the bank, thanks to your
father and Mr. Damon, most of my clothes are packed, I've bought a
gun and I've got a lot of quinine in case I get a fever."

"Good!" cried the elephant hunter. "You'll do all right, I reckon.
I'm glad I met you young fellows. Well, I've lived through my first
trip in the air, which is more than I expected when I started."

They discussed their plans at some length, for, now that the airship
had proved all that they had hoped for, it would not be long ere
they were under way. In the days that followed Tom put the finishing
touches on the craft, arranged to have it packed up for shipment,
and spent some time practicing with his electric rifle. He got to be
an expert shot, and Mr. Durban, who was a wonder with the ordinary
rifle, praised the young inventor highly.

"There won't be many of the big tuskers get away from you, Tom Swift,"
he said. "And that reminds me, I got a letter the other day, from
the firm I collect ivory for, stating that the price had risen
because of a scarcity, and urging me to hurry back to Africa and get
all I could. It seems that war has broken out among some of the
central African tribes, and they are journeying about in the jungle,
on the war path here and there, and have driven the elephants into
the very deepest wilds, where the ordinary hunters can't get at
them."

"Maybe we won't have any luck, either," suggested Ned.

"Oh, yes, we will," declared the hunter. "With our airship, the
worst forest of the dark continent won't have any terrors for us,
for we can float above it. And the fights of the natives won't have
any effect. In a way, this will be a good thing, for with the price
of ivory soaring, we can make more money than otherwise. There's a
chance for us all to get a lot of money."

"Bless my piano keys!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "if I can get just one
elephant, and pull out his big ivory teeth, I'll be satisfied. I
want a nice pair of tusks to set up on either side of my fireplace
for ornaments."

"A mighty queer place for such-like ornaments," said Mr. Durban in a
low voice. Then he added: "Well, the sooner we get started the
better I'll like it, for I want to get that pair of big tusks for a
special customer of mine."

"I'll give the Black Hawk one more trial flight, and then take her
apart and ship her," decided Tom, and the final flight, a most
successful one, took place the following day.

Then came another busy season when the airship was taken apart for
shipment to the coast of Africa by steamer. It was put into big
boxes and crates, and Eradicate and his mule took them to the
station in Shopton.

"Don't you want to come to Africa with us, Rad?" asked Tom, when the
last of the cases had been sent off. "You'll find a lot of your
friends there."

"No, indeedy, I doan't want t' go," answered the colored man,
"though I would like to see dat country."

"Then why don't you come?"

"Hu! Yo' think, Massa Tom, dat I go anywhere dat I might meet dem
little red men what Massa Durban talk about? No, sah, dey might hurt
mah mule Boomerang."

"Oh, I wasn't going to take the mule along," said Tom, wondering how
the creature might behave in the airship.

"Not take Boomerang? Den I SUTTINLY ain't goin," and Eradicate
walked off, highly offended, to give some oats to his faithful if
somewhat eccentric steed.

After the airship had been sent off there yet remained much for Tom
Swift to do. He had to send along a number of special tools and
appliances with which to put the ship together again, and also some
with which to repair the craft in case of accident. So that this
time was pretty well occupied. But at length everything was in
readiness, and with his electric rifle knocked down for
transportation, and with his baggage, and that of the others, all
packed, they set off one morning to take the train for New York,
where they would get a steamer for Africa.

Numerous good-bys had been said, and Tom had made a farewell call on
Mary Nestor, promising to bring her some trophy from elephant land,
though he did not quite know what it would be.

Mr. Damon, as the train started, blessed everything he could think
of. Mr. Swift waved his hand and wished his son and the others good
luck, feeling a little lonesome that he could not make one of the
party. Ned was eager with excitement, and anticipation of what lay
before him. Tom Swift was thinking of what he could accomplish with
his electric rifle, and of the wonderful sights he would see, and,
as for the old elephant hunter, he was very glad to be on the move
again, after so many weeks of idleness, for he was a very active
man.

Their journey to New York was uneventful, and they found that the
parts of the airship had safely arrived, and had been taken aboard
the steamer. The little party went aboard themselves, after a day
spent in sight-seeing, and that afternoon the Soudalar, which was
the vessel's name, steamed away from the dock at high tide.

"Off for Africa!" exclaimed Tom to Ned, as they stood at the rail,
watching the usual crowd wave farewells. "Off for Africa, Ned."

As Tom spoke, a gentleman who had been standing near him and his
chum, vigorously waving his hand to some one on the pier, turned
quickly. He looked sharply at the young inventor for a moment, and
then exclaimed:

"Well, if it isn't Tom Swift! Did I hear you say you were going to
Africa?"

Tom looked at the gentleman with rather a puzzled air for a moment.
The face was vaguely familiar, but Tom could not recall where he had
seen it. Then it came to him in a flash.

"Mr. Floyd Anderson!" exclaimed our hero. "Mr. Anderson of--"

"Earthquake Island!" exclaimed the gentleman quickly, as he extended
his hand. "I guess you remember that place, Tom Swift."

"Indeed I do. And to think of meeting you again, and on this African
steamer," and Tom's mind went back to the perilous days when his
wireless message had saved the castaways of Earthquake Island, among
whom were Mr. Anderson and his wife.

"Did I hear you say you were going to Africa?" asked Mr. Anderson,
when he had been introduced to Ned, and the others in Tom's party.

"That's where we're bound for," answered the lad. "We are going to
elephant land. But where are you going, Mr. Anderson?"

"Also to Africa, but not on a trip for pleasure or profit like
yourselves. I have been commissioned by a missionary society to
rescue two of its workers from the heart of the dark continent."

"Rescue two missionaries?" exclaimed Tom, wonderingly.

"Yes, a gentleman and his wife, who, it is reported, have fallen
into the hands of a race known as the red pygmies, who hold them
captives!"




CHAPTER IX

ATTACKED BY A WHALE


Surprise at Mr. Anderson's announcement held Tom silent for a
moment. That the gentleman whom he had been the means of rescuing,
among others, from Earthquake Island, should be met with so
unexpectedly, was quite a coincidence, but when it developed that he
was bound to the same part of the African continent as were Tom and
his friends, and when he said he hoped to rescue some missionaries
from the very red pygmies so feared by the old elephant hunter--this
was enough to startle any one.

"I see that my announcement has astonished you," said Mr. Anderson,
as he noted the look of surprise on the face of the young inventor.

"It certainly has! Why, that's where we are bound for, in my new
airship. Come down into our cabin, Mr. Anderson, and tell us all
about it. Is your wife with you?"

"No, it is too dangerous a journey on which to take her. I have
little hope of succeeding, for it is now some time since the
unfortunate missionaries were captured, but I am going to do my
best, and organize a relief expedition when I get to Africa."

Tom said nothing at that moment, but he made up his mind that if it
was at all possible he would lend his aid, that of his airship, and
also get his friends to assist Mr. Anderson. They went below to a
special cabin that had been reserved for Tom's party, and there, as
the ship slowly passed down New York Bay, Mr. Anderson told his
story.

"I mentioned to you, when we were on Earthquake Island," he said to
Tom, "that I had been in Africa, and had done some hunting. That is
not my calling, as it is that of your friend, Mr. Durban, but I know
the country pretty well. However, I have not been there in some
time."

"My wife and I are connected with a church in New York that, several
years ago, raised a fund and sent two missionaries, Mr. and Mrs.
Jacob Illingway, to the heart of Africa. They built up a little
mission there, and for a time all went well, and they did good work
among the natives."

"They are established in a tribe of friendly black men, of simple
nature, and, while the natives did not become Christianized to any
remarkable extent, yet they were kind to the missionaries. Mr. and
Mrs. Illingway used frequently to write to members of our church,
telling of their work. They also mentioned the fact that adjoining
the country of the friendly blacks there was a tribe of fierce
little red men,--red because of hair of that color all over their
bodies."

"That's right," agreed Mr. Durban, shaking his head solemnly.
"They're red imps, too!"

"Mr. Illingway often mentioned in his letters," went on Mr.
Anderson, "that there were frequent fights between the pygmies and
the race of blacks, but the latter had no great fear of their small
enemies. However, it seems that they did not take proper
precautions, for not long ago there was a great battle, the blacks
were attacked by a large force of the red pygmies, who overwhelmed
them by numbers, and finally routed them, taking possession of their
country."

"What became of the missionaries?" asked Ned Newton.

"I'll tell you," said Mr. Anderson. "For a long time we heard
nothing, beyond the mere news of the fight, which we read of in the
papers. The church people were very anxious about the fate of Mr.
and Mrs. Illingway, and were talking of sending a special messenger
to inquire about them, when a cablegram came from the headquarters
of the society in London."

"It seems that one of the black natives, named Tomba, who was a sort
of house servant to Mr. and Mrs. Illingway, escaped the general
massacre, in which all his friends were killed. He made his way
through the jungle to a white settlement, and told his story,
relating how the two missionaries had been carried away captive by
the pygmies."

"A terrible fate," commented Mr. Durban.

"Yes, they might better be dead, from all the accounts we can hear,"
went on Mr. Anderson.

"Bless my Sunday hat! Don't say that!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Maybe
we can save them, Mr. Anderson."

"That is what I am going to try to do, though it may be too late. As
soon as definite news was received, our church held a meeting,
raised a fund, and decided to send me off to find Mr. and Mrs.
Illingway, if alive, or give them decent burial, if I could locate
their bones. The reason they selected me was because I had been in
Africa, and knew the country."

"I made hurried arrangements, packed up, said good-by to my wife,
and here I am. But to think of meeting you, Tom Swift! And to hear
that you are also going to Africa. I wish I could command an airship
for the rescue. It might be more easily accomplished!"

"That's just what I was going to propose!" exclaimed Tom. "We are
going to the land of the red pygmies, and while I have promised to
help Mr. Durban in getting ivory, and while I want to try my
electric rifle on big game, still we can do both, I think. You can
depend on us, Mr. Anderson, and if the Black Hawk can be of any
service to you in the rescue, count us in!"

"Gosh!" cried the former castaway of Earthquake Island. "This is the
best piece of luck I could have! Now tell me all about your plans."
which Tom and the others did, listening in turn, to further details
about the missionaries.

Just how they would go to work to effect the rescue, or how they
could locate the particular tribe of little red men who had Mr. and
Mrs. Illingway, they did not know.

"We may be able to get hold of this Tomba," said Mr. Durban. "If not
I guess between Mr. Anderson and myself we can get on the trail,
somehow. I'm anxious to get to the coast, see the airship put
together again, and start for the interior."

"So am I," declared Tom, as he got out his electric rifle, and began
to put it together, for he wanted to show Mr. Anderson how it
worked.

They had a pleasant and uneventful voyage for two weeks. The weather
was good, and, to tell the truth, it was rather monotonous for Tom
and the others, who were eager to get into activity again. Then came
a storm, which, while it was not dangerous, yet gave them plenty to
think and talk about for three days. Then came more calm weather,
when the Soudalar plowed along over gently heaving billows.

They were about a week from their port of destination, which was
Majumba, on the African coast, when, one afternoon, as Tom and the
others were in their cabin, they heard a series of shouts on deck,
and the sound of many feet running to and fro.

"Something has happened!" exclaimed the young inventor.

Tom raced for the companionway, and was soon on deck, followed by
Mr. Durban and the others. They saw a crowd of sailors and
passengers leaning over the port rail.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom, of the second mate, who was just
passing.

"Fight between a killer and a whale," was the reply. "The captain
has ordered the ship to lay-to so it can be watched."

Tom made his way to the rail. About a quarter of a mile away there
could be observed a great commotion in the ocean. Great bodies
seemed to be threshing about, beating the water to foam, and, with
the foam could be seen bright blood mingled. Occasionally two jets
of water, as from some small fountain, would shoot upward.

"He's blowing hard!" exclaimed one of the sailors. "I guess he's
about done for!"

"Which one?" asked Tom.

"The whale," was the reply. "The killer has the best of the big
fellow," and the sailor quickly explained how the smaller killer
fish, by the peculiarity of its attack, and its great ferocity,
often bested its larger antagonist.

The battle was now at its height, and Tom and the others were
interested spectators. At times neither of the big creatures could
be seen, because of the smother of foam in which they rolled and
threshed about. The whale endeavored to sound, or go to the bottom,
but the killer stuck to him relentlessly.

Suddenly, however, as Tom looked, the whale, by a stroke of his
broad tail, momentarily stunned his antagonist. Instantly realizing
that he was free the great creature, which was about ninety feet
long, darted away, swimming on the surface of the water, for he
needed to get all the air possible.

Quickly acquiring momentum, the whale came on like a locomotive,
spouting at intervals, the vapor from the blowholes looking not
unlike steam from some submarine boat.

"He looks to be heading this way," remarked Mr. Durban to Tom.

"He is," agreed the young inventor, "but I guess he'll dive before
he gets here. He only wants to get away from the killer. Look, the
other one is swimming this way, too!"

"Bless my harpoon, but he sure is!" called Mr. Damon. "They'll renew
the fight near here."

But he was mistaken, for the killer, after coming a little distance
after the whale, suddenly turned, hesitated for a moment, and then
disappeared in the depths of the ocean.

The whale, however, continued to come on, speeding through the water
with powerful strokes. There was an uneasy movement among some of
the passengers.

"Suppose he strikes the ship," suggested one woman.

"Nonsense! He couldn't," said her husband.

"The old man had better get under way, just the same," remarked a
sailor near Tom, as he looked up at the bridge where the captain was
standing.

The "old man," or commander, evidently thought the same thing, for,
after a glance at the oncoming leviathan, which was still headed
directly for the vessel, he shoved the lever of the telegraph signal
over to "full speed ahead."

Hardly had he done so than the whale sank from sight.

"Oh, I'm so glad!" exclaimed the woman who had first spoken of the
possibility of the whale hitting the ship, "I am afraid of those
terrible creatures."

"They're as harmless as a cow, unless they get angry," said her
husband.

Slowly the great ship began to move through the water. Tom and his
friends were about to go back to their cabin, for they thought the
excitement over, when, as the young inventor turned from the rail,
he felt a vibration throughout the whole length of the steamer, as
if it had hit on a sand-bar.

Instantly there was a jangling of bells in the engine room, and the
Soudalar lost headway.

"What's the matter?" asked several persons.

They were answered a moment later, for the big whale, even though
grievously wounded in his fight with the killer, had risen not a
hundred feet away from the ship, and was coming toward it with the
speed of an express train.

"Bless my blubber!" cried Mr. Damon. "We must have hit the whale, or
it hit us under the water and now it's going to attack us!"

He had no more than gotten the words out of his mouth ere the great
creature of the deep came on full tilt at the vessel, struck it a
terrific blow which made it tremble from stem to stern, and careen
violently.

There was a chorus of frightened cries, sailors rushed to and fro,
the engine-room bells rang violently, and the captain and mates
shouted hoarse orders.

"Here he comes again!" yelled Mr. Durban, as he hurried to the side
of the ship. "The whale takes us for an enemy, I guess, and he's
going to ram us again!"

"And if he does it many times, he'll start the plates and cause a
leak that won't be stopped in a hurry!" cried a sailor as he rushed
past Tom.

The young inventor looked at the oncoming monster for a moment, and
then started on the run for his cabin.

"Here! Where are you going?" cried Mr. Damon, but Tom did not
answer.




CHAPTER X

OFF IN THE AIRSHIP


As Tom Swift hurried down the companionway he again felt the ship
careen as the whale struck it a powerful blow, and he was almost
knocked off his feet. But he kept on.

Below he found some frightened men and women, a number of whom were
adjusting life preservers about them, under the impression that the
ship had struck a rock and was going down. They had not been up on
deck, and did not know of the battle between the killer and the
whale, nor what followed.

"Oh, I know we're sinking!" cried one timid woman. "What has
happened?" she appealed to Tom.

"It will be all right in a little while," he assured her.

"But what is it? I want to know. Have we had a collision."

"Yes, with a whale," replied Tom, as he grabbed up something from
his stateroom, and again rushed up on deck. As he reached it the
whale came on once more, and struck the ship another terrific blow.
Then the monster sank and could be seen swimming back, just under
the surface of the water, getting ready to renew the attack.

"He's going to ram us again!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my machine
oil! Why doesn't the captain do something?"

At that moment the commander cried from the bridge:

"Send a man below, Mr. Laster, to see if we are making any water.
Then tell half a dozen of the sailors to get out the rifles, and see
if they can't kill the beast. He'll put us in Davy Jones's locker if
he keeps this up! Lively now, men!"

The first mate, Mr. Laster, called out the order. A sailor went
below to see if the ship was leaking much, and the captain rang for
full speed ahead. But the Soudalar was slow in getting under way
again, and, even at top speed she was no match for the whale, which
was again rushing toward the vessel.

"Quick with those rifles!" cried the captain. "Fire a volley into
the beast!"

"There's no need!" suddenly called Mr. Damon, who had caught sight
of Tom Swift, and the object which the lad carried.

"No need?" demanded the commander. "Why, has the whale sunk, or made
off?"

"No," answered the eccentric man, "the whale is still coming on, but
Tom Swift will fix him. Get there, Tom, and let him have a good
one!"

"What sort of a gun is that?" demanded the commander as the young
inventor took his place at the rail, which was now almost deserted.

Tom did not answer. Bracing himself against the rolling and heaving
of the vessel, which was now under about half speed, Tom aimed his
electric rifle at the oncoming leviathan. He looked at the automatic
gage, noted the distance and waiting a moment until the crest of a
wave in front of the whale had subsided, he pressed the button.

If those watching him expected to hear a loud report, and see a
flash of flame, they were disappointed. There was absolutely no
sound, but what happened to the whale was most surprising.

The great animal stopped short amid a swirl of foam, and the next
instant it seemed to disintegrate. It went all to pieces, just as
had the dummy figure which Tom on one occasion fired at with his
rifle and as had the big packing-cases. The whale appeared to
dissolve, as does a lump of sugar in a cup of hot tea, and, five
seconds after Tom Swift had fired his electric gun, there was not a
sign of the monster save a little blood on the calm sea.

"What--what happened?" asked the captain in bewilderment. "Is--is
that monster gone?"

"Completely gone!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my powder horn, Tom, but
I knew you could do it!"

"Is that a new kind of whale gun, firing an explosive bullet?"
inquired the commander, as he came down off the bridge and shook
hands with Tom. "If it is, I'd like to buy one. We may be rammed
again by another whale."

"This is my new, electric rifle," explained the young inventor
modestly, "and it fires wireless charges of electricity instead of
bullets. I'm sorry I can't let you have it, as it's the only one I
have. But I guess no more whales will ram us. That one was evidently
crazed by the attack of the killer, and doubtless took us for
another of its enemies."

Sailors and passengers crowded around Tom, eager to shake his hand,
and to hear about the gun. Many declared that he had saved the ship.

This was hardly true, for the whale could not have kept up its
attacks much longer. Still he might have done serious damage, by
causing a leak, and, while the Soudalar was a stanch craft, with
many water-tight compartments, still no captain likes to be a week
from land with a bad leak, especially if a storm comes up. Then,
too, there was the danger of a panic among the passengers, had the
attacks been kept up, so, though Tom wanted to make light of his
feat, the others would not let him.

"You're entitled to the thanks of all on board," declared Captain
Wendon, "and I'll see that the owners hear of what you did. Well, I
guess we can go on, now. I'll not stop again to see a fight between
a killer and a whale."

The steamer resumed her way at full speed, and the sailor, who had
gone below, came up to report that there was only a slight leak,
which need not cause any uneasiness.

Little was talked of for the next few days but the killing of the
whale, and Tom had to give several exhibitions of his electric
rifle, and explain its workings. Then, too, the story of his
expedition became known, and also the object of Mr. Anderson's
quest, and Tom's offer of aid to help rescue the missionaries, so
that, altogether, our hero was made much of during the remainder of
the voyage.

"Well, if your gun will do that to a whale, what will it do to an
elephant?" asked Mr. Durban one morning, when they were within a
day's steaming of their port. "I'm afraid it's almost too strong,
Tom. It will leave nothing--not even the tusks to pick up."

"Oh, I can regulate the power," declared the lad. "I used full force
on the whale, just to see what it would do. It was the first time
I'd tried it on anything alive. I can so regulate the charge that it
will kill even an elephant, and leave scarcely a mark on the beast."

"I'd like to see it done," remarked the old hunter.

"I'll show you, if we sight any sharks," promised Tom. He was able
to keep his word for that afternoon a school of the ugly fish
followed the steamer for the sake of the food scraps thrown
overboard. Tom took his position in the stern, and gave an
exhibition of shooting with his electric gun that satisfied even Mr.
Durban, exacting as he was.

For the lad, by using his heaviest charges, destroyed the largest
sharks so that they seemed to instantly disappear in the water, and
from that he toned down the current until he could kill some of the
monsters so easily and quickly that they seemed to float motionless
on the surface, yet there was no life left in them once the electric
charge touched them.

"We'll use the light charges when we're killing elephants for their
tusks," said Tom, "and the heavy ones when we're in danger from a
rush of the beasts."

He little knew how soon he would have to put his plan into effect.

They arrived safely at Majumba, the African coast city, and for two
days Tom was kept busy superintending the unloading of the parts of
his airship. But it was safely taken ashore, and he and his friends
hired a disused warehouse in which to work at reassembling the Black
Hawk.

Tom had everything down to a system, and, in less than a week the
aircraft was once more ready to be sent aloft. It was given a try-out,
much to the astonishment of the natives, and worked perfectly.
Then Tom and his friends busied themselves laying in a stock of
provisions and stores for the trip into the interior.

They made inquiries about the chances of getting ivory and were told
that they were good if they went far enough into the jungle and
forests, for the big beasts had penetrated farther and farther
inland.

They also tried to get some news regarding the captive missionaries,
but were unsuccessful nor could they learn what had become of Tomba,
who had brought the dire news to civilization.

"It's too soon to hope for anything yet," said Mr. Anderson. "Wait
until we get near the country of the red pygmies."

"And then it may be too late," said Tom in a low voice.

It was two weeks after their arrival in Majumba that Tom announced
that all was in readiness. The airship was in perfect working order,
it was well stocked with food, arms, articles and trinkets with
which to trade among the natives, spare parts for the machinery,
special tools and a good supply of the chemicals needed to
manufacture the lifting gas.

Of course Tom did not leave behind his electric weapon and Mr.
Durban and the others took plenty of ammunition for the ordinary
rifles which they carried.

One morning, after cabling to his father that they were about to
start, Tom gave a last careful look to his airship, tested the motor
and dynamos, took a hasty survey of the storeroom, to see that
nothing had been forgotten, and gave the word to get aboard.

They took their places in the cabin. Outside a crowd of natives, and
white traders of many nationalities had gathered. Tom pulled the
starting lever. The Black Hawk shot across a specially prepared
starting ground, and, attaining sufficient momentum, suddenly arose
into the air.

There was a cheer from the watching crowd, and several superstitious
blacks, who saw the airship for the first time, ran away in terror.

Up into the blue atmosphere Tom took his craft. He looked down on
the city over which he was flying. Then he pointed the prow of the
Black Hawk toward the heart of the dark continent.

"Off for the interior!" he murmured. "I wonder if we'll ever get out
again?"

No one could answer. They had to take their chances with the dangers
and terrors of elephant land, and with the red pygmies. Yet Tom
Swift was not afraid.




CHAPTER XI

ANCHORED TO EARTH


With the voyage on the steamer, their arrival in Africa, the many
strange sights of the city of Majumba, and the refitting of the
airship, our friends had hardly had time to catch their breath since
Tom Swift's determination to go elephant hunting. Now, as the Black
Hawk was speeding into the interior, they felt, for the first time
in many weeks, that they "could take it easy," as Ned Newton
expressed it.

"Thank goodness," said the bank clerk, "I can sit down and look at
something for a while," and he gazed out of the main cabin windows
down at the wild country over which they were then flying.

For, so swiftly had the airship moved that it was hardly any time at
all before it had left Majumba far behind, and was scudding over the
wilderness.

"Bless my camera," exclaimed Mr. Damon, who had brought along one of
the picture machines, "bless my camera! I don't call that much to
look at," and he pointed to the almost impenetrable forest over
which they then were.

"No, it isn't much of a view," said the old elephant hunter, "but
wait. You'll soon see all you want to. Africa isn't all like this.
There are many strange sights before us yet. But, Tom Swift, tell us
how the airship is working in this climate. Do you find any
difficulty managing it?"

"Not at all," answered Tom, who was in the cabin then, having set
the automatic steering apparatus in the pilot house, and come back
to join the others. "It works as well as it did in good old York
State. Of course I can't tell what affect the continual hot and
moist air will have on the gas bag, but I guess we'll make out all
right."

"I certainly hope so," put in Mr. Anderson. "It would be too bad to
be wrecked in the middle of Africa, with no way to get out."

"Oh, you needn't worry about that," said Ned with a laugh. "If the
airship should smash, Tom would build another out of what was left,
and we'd sail away as good as before."

"Hardly that," answered the young inventor.

"But we won't cross a bridge until we hear it coming, as Eradicate
would say. Hello, that looks like some sort of native village."

He pointed ahead to a little clearing in the forest, where a number
of mud and grass huts were scattered about. As they came nearer they
could see the black savages, naked save for a loin cloth, running
about in great excitement, and pointing upward.

"Yes, that's one of the numerous small native villages we'll see
from now on," said Mr. Durban. "Many a night have I spent in those
same grass huts after a day's hunting. Sometimes, I've been
comfortable, and again not. I guess we've given those fellows a
scare."

It did seem so, for by this time the whole population, including
women and children, were running about like mad. Suddenly, from
below there sounded a deep booming noise, which came plainly to the
ears of the elephant hunters through the opened windows of the
airship cabin.

"Hark! What's that?" cried Tom, raising his hand for silence.

"Bless my umbrella! it sounds like thunder," said Mr. Damon.

"No, it's one of their war drums," explained Mr. Durban. "The
natives make large ones out of hollow trees, with animal skins
stretched over the ends, and they beat them to sound a warning, or
before going into battle. It makes a great noise."

"Do you think they want to fight us?" asked Ned, looking anxiously
at Tom, and then toward where his rifle stood in a corner of the
cabin.

"No, probably that drum was beaten by some of the native priests,"
explained the hunter. "The natives are very superstitious, and
likely they took us for an evil spirit, and wanted to drive us
away."

"Then we'll hustle along out of their sight," said Tom, as he went
to the pilot house to increase the speed of the airship, for he had
been letting it drift along slowly to enable the adventurers to view
the country over which they were passing. A few minutes later, under
the increased force of the machinery, the Black Hawk left the native
village, and the crowd of frightened blacks, far behind.

The travelers passed over a succession of wild stretches of forest
or jungle, high above big grassy plains, over low but rugged
mountain ranges, and big rivers. Now and then they would cross some
lake, on the calm surface of which could be made out natives, in big
canoes, hollowed out from trees. In each case the blacks showed
every appearance of fright at the sight of the airship throbbing
along over their heads.

On passing over the lake, Ned Newton looked down and cried out
excitedly:

"Look! Elephants! They're in swimming, and the natives are shooting
them! Now's our chance, Tom!"

Mr. Anderson and Mr. Durban, after a quick glance, drew back
laughing.

"Those are hippopotami!" exclaimed the old elephant man. "Good
hunting, if you don't care what you shoot, but not much sport in it.
It will be some time yet before we see any elephants, boys."

Ned was rather chagrined at his mistake, but the African travelers
told him that any one, not familiar with the country, would have
made it, especially in looking down from a great height.

They sailed along about half a mile above the earth, Tom gradually
increasing the speed of the ship, as he found the machinery to be
working well. Dinner was served as they were crossing a high grassy
plateau, over which could be seen bounding a number of antelopes.

"Some of those would go good for a meal," said Mr. Durban, after a
pause during which he watched the graceful creatures.

"Then we'll go down and get some for supper," decided Tom, for in
that hot climate it was impossible to carry fresh meat on the
airship.

Accordingly, the Black Hawk was sent down, and came to rest in a
natural clearing on the edge of the jungle. After waiting until the
fierce heat of noonday was over, the travelers got out their rifles
and, under the leadership of Mr. Durban and Mr. Anderson, who was
also an experienced hunter, they set off.

Game was plentiful, but as they could only eat a comparatively small
quantity, and as it would not keep, they only shot what they needed.
Tom had his electric rifle, but hesitated to use it, as Mr. Durban
and Mr. Anderson had each already bowled over a fine buck.

However, a chance came most unexpectedly, for, as they were passing
along the banks of a little stream, which was almost hidden from
view by thick weeds and rank grass, there was a sudden commotion in
the bushes, and a fierce wild buffalo sprang out at the party.

There are few animals in Africa more dreaded by hunters than the
wild buffalo, for the beast, with its spreading sharp horns is a
formidable foe, and will seldom give up the attack until utterly
unable to move. They are fierce and relentless.

"Look out!" yelled Mr. Durban. "To cover, everybody! If that beast
gets after you it's no fun! You and I will fire at him, Mr. Anderson!"

Mr. Durban raised his rifle, and pulled the trigger, but, for some
reason, the weapon failed to go off. Mr. Anderson quickly raised
his, but his foot slipped in a wet place and he fell. At that moment
the buffalo, with a snort of rage, charged straight for the fallen man.

"Tom! your electric rifle!" yelled Ned Newton, but he need not have
done so, for the young inventor was on the alert.

Taking instant aim, and adjusting his weapon for the heaviest
charge, Tom fired at the advancing beast. The result was the same as
in the case of the whale, the buffalo seemed to melt away. And it
was stopped only just in time, too, for it was close to the
prostrate Mr. Anderson, who had sprained his ankle slightly, and
could not readily rise.

It was all over in a few seconds, but it was a tense time while it
lasted.

"You saved my life again, Tom Swift," said Mr. Anderson, as he
limped toward our hero. "Once on Earthquake Island, and again now. I
shan't forget it," and he shook hands with the young inventor.

The others congratulated Tom on his quick shot, and Mr. Damon, as
usual blessed everything in sight, and the electric rifle
especially.

They went back to the airship, taking the fresh meat with them, but
on account of the injury to Mr. Anderson's ankle could not make
quick progress, so that it was almost dusk when they reached the
craft.

"Well, we'll have supper, and then start off," proposed Tom, "I
don't think it would be wise to remain on the ground so near the
jungle."

"No' it's safer in the air," agreed Mr. Durban. The meal was much
enjoyed, especially the fresh meat, and, after it was over, Tom took
his place in the pilot house to start the machinery, and send the
airship aloft.

The motor hummed and throbbed, and the gas hissed into the bag, for
the ground was not level enough to permit of a running start by
means of the planes. Lights gleamed from the Black Hawk and the big
search-lantern in front cast a dazzling finger of light into the
black forest.

"Well, what are you waiting for?" called Ned, who heard the
machinery in motion, but who could not feel the craft rising. "Why
don't you go up, Tom?"

"I'm trying to," answered the young inventor. "Something seems to be
the matter." He pulled the speed lever over a few more notches, and
increased the power of the gas machine. Still the Black Hawk did not
rise.

"Bless my handkerchief box!" cried Mr. Damon, "what's the matter?"

"I don't know," answered Tom. "We seem to be held fast."

He further increased the speed of the propellers, and the gas
machine was set to make vapor at its fullest capacity, and force it
into the bag. Still the craft was held to the earth.

"Maybe the gas has no effect in this climate," called Ned.

"It can't be that," replied Tom. "The gas will operate anywhere. It
worked all right today."

Suddenly she airship moved up a little way, and then seemed to be
pulled down again, hitting the ground with a bump.

"Something is holding us!" cried Tom. "We're anchored to earth! I
must see what it is!" and, catching up his electric rifle, he dashed
out of the cabin.




CHAPTER XII

AMONG THE NATIVES


For a moment after Tom's departure the others stared blankly at one
another. They could hear the throbbing and hum of the machinery, and
feel the thrill of the anchored airship. But they could not
understand what the trouble was.

"We must help Tom!" cried Ned Newton at length as he caught up his
rifle. "Maybe we are in the midst of a herd of elephants, and they
have hold of the ship in their trunks."

"It couldn't be!" declared Mr. Durban, yet they soon discovered that
Ned's guess was nearer the truth then any of them had suspected at
the time.

"We must help him, true enough!" declared Mr. Anderson, and he and
the others followed Ned out on deck.

"Where are you Tom?" called his chum.

"Here." was the answer. "I'm on the forward deck."

"Do you see anything?"

"No, it's too dark. Turn the search-light this way."

"I will," shouted Mr. Damon, and a moment later the gleam of the
powerful lantern brought Tom clearly into view, as he stood on the
small forward observation platform in the bow of the Black Hawk.

An instant later the young inventor let out a startled cry.

"What is it?" demanded Mr. Durban.

"An immense snake!" shouted Tom. "It's wound around a tree, and
partly twined around the ship! That's why we couldn't go up! I'm
going to shoot it."

They looked to where he pointed, and there, in the glare of the
light, could be seen an immense python, fully twenty-five feet long,
the forward part of its fat ugly body circled around the slender
prow of the airship, while the folds of the tail were about a big
tree.

Tom Swift raised his electric rifle, took quick aim, and, having set
it to deliver a moderate charge, pressed the button. The result was
surprising, for the snake being instantly killed the folds uncoiled
and the ship shot upward, only, instead of rising on an even keel,
the bow pointed toward the sky, while the stern was still fast to
the earth. Tilted at an angle of forty-five degrees the Black Hawk
was in a most peculiar position, and those standing on the deck
began to slide along it.

"There's another snake at the stern!" cried Mr. Damon as he grasped
a brace to prevent falling off. "Bless my slippers! it's the mate of
the one you killed! Shoot the other one, Tom!"

The young inventor needed no urging. Making his way as best he could
to the stern of the airship, he killed the second python, which was
even larger than the first, and in an instant the Black Hawk shot
upward, this time level, and as it should be. Things on board were
soon righted, and the travelers could stand upright. High above the
black jungle rose the craft, moving forward under the full power of
the propellers, until Tom rushed into the engine room, and reduced
speed.

"Well, talk about things happening!" exclaimed Ned, when they had
somewhat recovered from the excitement. "I should say they were
beginning with a vengeance!"

"That's the way in Africa," declared Mr. Durban. "It's a curious
country. Those pythons generally go in pairs, but it's the first
time I ever knew them to tackle an airship. They probably stay
around here where there is plenty of small game for them, and very
likely they merely anchored to our craft while waiting for a supper
to come along."

"It was a very odd thing," said Tom. "I couldn't imagine what held
us. After this I'll see that all is clear before I try to go up.
Next time we may be held by a troop of baboons and it strains the
machinery to have it pull against dead weight in that way."

However, it was found no harm had resulted from this experience,
and, after reducing the gas pressure, which was taking them too
high, Tom set the automatic rudders.

"We'll keep on at slow speed through the night," he explained, "and
in the morning we'll be pretty well into the interior. Then we can
lay our course for wherever we want to go. Where had we better head
for?"

"I don't want to interfere with your plans," said Mr. Anderson, "but
I would like to rescue those missionaries. But the trouble is, I
don't know just where to look for them. We couldn't get much of a
line in Majumba on where the country of the red pygmies is located.
What do you think about it, Mr. Durban?"

"As far as elephant hunting goes we can probably do as well in the
pygmy land as anywhere else," answered the veteran, "and perhaps it
will be well to head for that place. If we run across any elephant
herds in the meanwhile, we can stop, get the ivory, and proceed."

They discussed this plan at some length, and agreed that it was the
best thing to do. Mr. Durban had a map of the country around the
center of Africa, and he marked on it, as nearly as he could, the
location of the pygmies' country, while Mr. Anderson also had a
chart, showing the location of the mission which had been wiped out
of existence. It was in the midst of a wild and desolate region.

"We'll do the best we can," declared Tom, "and I think we'll
succeed. We ought to be there in about a week, if we have no bad
luck."

All that night the Black Hawk flew on over Africa, covering mile
after mile, passing over jungle, forest, plains, rivers and lakes,
and, doubtless, over many native villages, though they could not be
seen.

Morning found the travelers above a great, grassy plain, dotted here
and there with negro settlements which were separated by rivers,
lakes or thin patches of forest.

"Well, we'll speed up a bit," decided Tom after breakfast, which was
eaten to the weird accompaniment of hundreds of native warning-drums,
beaten by the superstitious blacks.

Tom went to the engine room, and turned on more speed. He was about
to go back to the pilot house, to set the automatic steering
apparatus to coincide with the course mapped out, when there was a
crash of metal, an ominous snapping and buzzing sound, followed by a
sudden silence.

"What's that?" cried Ned, who was in the motor compartment with his
chum.

"Something's gone wrong!" exclaimed the young inventor, as he sprang
back toward the engine. The propellers had ceased revolving, and as
there was no gas in the bag at that time, it having been decided to
save the vapor for future needs, the Black Hawk began falling toward
the earth.

"We're going down!" yelled Ned.

"Yes, the main motor has broken!" exclaimed Tom. "We'll have to
descend to repair it."

"Say!" yelled Mr. Damon, rushing in, "we're right over a big African
village! Are we going to fall among the natives?"

"It looks that way," admitted Tom grimly, as he hastened to the
pilot house to shift the wings so that the craft could glide easily
to the ground.

"Bless my shoe blacking!" cried the eccentric man as he heard the
beating of drums, and the shouts of the savages.

A little later the airship had settled into the midst of a crowd of
Africans, who swarmed all about the craft.




CHAPTER XIII

ON AN ELEPHANT TRAIL


"Get ready with your guns, everybody!" cried the old elephant
hunter, as he prepared to leave the cabin of the Black Hawk. "Tom
Swift, don't forget your electric rifle. There'll be trouble soon!"

"Bless my cartridge belt!" gasped Mr. Damon. "Why? What will happen?"

"The natives," answered Mr. Durban. "They'll attack us sure as fate!
See, already they're getting out their bows and arrows, and
blowguns! They'll pierce the gas bag in a hundred places!"

"If they do, it will be a bad thing for us," muttered Tom. "We can't
have that happen."

He followed the old elephant hunter outside, and Mr. Anderson, Ned
Newton and Mr. Damon trailed after, each one with a gun, while Tom
had his electric weapon. The airship rested on its wheels on some
level ground, just in front of a large hut, surrounded by a number
of smaller ones. All about were the natives, tall, gaunt black men,
hideous in their savagery, wearing only the loin cloth, and with
their kinky hair stuck full of sticks, bones and other odd objects
they presented a curious sight.

 Some of them were dancing about, brandishing their weapons--clubs
spears, bows, and arrows, or the long, slender blowguns, consisting
merely of a hollow reed. Women and children there were, too, also
dancing and leaping about, howling at the tops of their voices.
Above the unearthly din could be heard the noise of the drums and
tom-toms, while, as the adventurers drew up in front of their
airship, there came a sort of chant, and a line of natives, dressed
fantastically in the skins of beasts, came filing out of the large
hut.

"The witch-doctors!" exclaimed Tom, who had read of them in African
travel books.

"Are they going to attack us?" cried Ned.

"Bless my hymn book! I hope not!" came from Mr. Damon. "We wouldn't
have any chance at all in this horde of black men. I wish Eradicate
Sampson and his mule Boomerang were here. Maybe he could talk their
language, and tell them that we meant no harm."

"If there's any talking to be done, I guess our guns will have to do
it," said Tom grimly.

"I can speak a little of their language," remarked Mr. Durban, "but
what in the world are the beggars up to, anyhow? I supposed they'd
send a volley of arrows at us, first shot, but they don't seem to be
going to do that."

"No, they're dancing around us," said Tom.

"That's it!" exclaimed Mr. Anderson. "I have it! Why didn't I think
of it before? The natives are welcoming us!"

"Welcoming us?" repeated Ned.

"Yes," went on the missionary seeker. "They are doing a dance in our
honor, and they have even called out the witch-doctors to do us
homage."

"That's right," agreed Mr. Durban, who was listening to the chanting
of the natives dressed in animal skins. "They take us for spirits
from another land, and are making us welcome here. Listen, I'll see
if I can make out what else they are saying."

The character of the shouts and chants changed abruptly, and the
dancing increased in fervor, even the children throwing themselves
wildly about. The witch-doctors ran around like so many maniacs, and
it looked as much like an American Indian war dance as anything
else.

"I've got it!" shouted Mr. Durban, for he had to call loudly to be
heard above the din. "They are asking us to make it rain. It seems
there has been a dry spell here, and their own rain-makers and
witch-doctors haven't been able to get a drop out of the sky. Now,
they take it that we have come to help them. They think we are going
to bring rain."

"And if we don't, what will happen?" asked Tom.

"Maybe they won't be quite so glad to see us," was the answer.

"Well, if they don't mean war, we might as well put up our weapons,"
suggested Mr. Anderson. "If they're going to be friendly, so much
the better, and if it should happen to rain while we're here, they'd
think we brought it, and we could have almost anything we wanted.
Perhaps they have a store of ivory hidden away, Mr. Durban. Some of
these tribes do."

"It's possible, but the chances for rain are very small. How long
will we have to stay here, Tom Swift?" asked the elephant hunter
anxiously.

"Well, perhaps I can get the motor mended in two or three days,"
answered the young inventor.

"Then we'll have to stay here in the meanwhile," decided Mr. Durban.
"Well, we'll make the best of it. Ha, here comes the native king to
do us honor," and, as he spoke there came toward the airship a
veritable giant of a black man, wearing a leopard skin as a royal
garment, while on his head was a much battered derby hat, probably
purchased at a fabulous price from some trader. The king, if such he
could be called, was accompanied by a number of attendants and
witch-doctors. In front walked a small man, who, as it developed,
was an interpreter. The little cavalcade advanced close to the
airship, and came to a halt. The king made a low bow, either to the
craft or to the elephant hunters drawn up in front of it. His
attendants followed his example, and then the interpreter began to
speak.

Mr. Durban listened intently, made a brief answer to the little man,
and then the elephant hunter's face lighted up.

"It's all right," he said to Tom and the others. "The king takes us
for wonderful spirits from another land. He welcomes us, says we can
have whatever we want, and he begs us to make it rain. I have said
we will do our best, and I have asked that some food be sent us.
That's always the first thing to do. We'll be allowed to stay here
in peace until Tom can mend the ship, and then we'll hit the air
trail again."

The talk between Mr. Durban and the interpreter continued for some
little time longer. Then the king went back to his hut, refusing, as
Mr. Durban said, an invitation to come aboard and see how a modern
airship was constructed. The natives, too, seemed anxious to give
the craft a wide berth.

The excitement had quieted down now, and, in a short time a crowd of
native women came toward the airship, bearing, in baskets on their
heads, food of various kinds. There were bananas, some wild fruits,
yams, big gourds of goats' milk, some boiled and stewed flesh of
young goats, nicely cooked, and other things, the nature of which
could only be guessed at.

"Shall we eat this stuff, or stick to Mr. Damon's cooking?" asked
Tom.

"Oh, you'll find this very good," explained Mr. Durban. "I've eaten
native cookery before. Some of it is excellent and as this appears
to be very good, Mr. Damon can have a vacation while we are here."

The old elephant hunter proved the correctness of his statement by
beginning to eat, and soon all the travelers were partaking of the
food left by the native women. They placed it down on the ground at
a discreet distance from the airship, and hurriedly withdrew. But if
the women and men were afraid, the children were not, and they were
soon swarming about the ship, timidly touching the sides with their
little black fingers, but not venturing on board.

Tom, with Ned and Mr. Damon to help him, began work on the motor
right after dinner. He found the break to be worse than he had
supposed, and knew that it would take at least four days to repair
it.

Meanwhile the airship continued to be a source of wonder to the
natives. They were always about it, save at night, but their
admiration was a respectful one. The king was anxious for the
rain-making incantations to begin, but Mr. Durban put him off.

"I don't want to deceive these simple natives," he said, "and for
our own safety we can't pretend to make rain, and fail. As soon as
we have a chance we'll slip away from here."

But an unexpected happening made a change in their plans. It was on
the afternoon of their third day in the native village, and Tom and
his assistants were working hard at the motor. Suddenly there seemed
to be great excitement in the vicinity of the king's hut. A native
had rushed into the village from the jungle, evidently with some
news, for presently the whole place was in a turmoil.

Once more the king and his attendants filed out toward the airship.
Once more the interpreter talked to Mr. Durban, who listened
eagerly.

"By Jove! here's our chance!" he cried to Tom, when the little man
had finished.

"What is it?" asked the young inventor.

"A runner has just come in with news that a large herd of wild
elephants is headed this way. The king is afraid the big beasts will
trample down all their crops, as often occurs, and he begs us to go
out and drive the animals away. It's just what we want. Come on,
Tom, and all of you. The airship will be safe here, for the natives
think that to meddle with it would mean death or enchantment for
then. We'll get on our first elephant trail!"

The old hunter went into the cabin for his big game gun, while Tom
hastened to get out his electric rifle. Now he would have a chance
to try it on the powerful beasts which he had come to Africa to
hunt.

Amid the excited and joyous shouts of the natives, the hunters filed
out of the village, led by the dusky messenger who had brought the
news of the elephants. And, as Tom and the others advanced, they
could hear a distant trumpeting, and a crashing in the jungle that
told of the near presence of the great animals.




CHAPTER XIV

A STAMPEDE


"Look to your guns, everybody!" cautioned Mr. Durban. "It's no joke
to be caught in an elephant herd with an unloaded rifle. Have you
plenty of ammunition, Mr. Damon?"

"Ammunition? Bless my powder bag, I think I have enough for all the
elephants I'll kill. If I get one of the big beasts I'll be
satisfied. Bless my piano keys! I think I see them, Tom!"

He pointed off through the thick jungle. Surely something was moving
there amid the trees; great slate-colored bodies, massive forms and
waving trunks! The trumpeting increased, and the crashing of the
underbrush sounded louder and nearer.

"There they are!" cried Tom Swift joyously.

"Now for my first big game!" yelled Ned Newton.

"Take it easy," advised Mr. Anderson. "Remember to aim for the spot
I mentioned to you as being the best, just at the base of the skull.
If you can't make a head shot, or through the eye, try for the
heart. But with the big bullets we have, almost any kind of a shot,
near a vital spot, will answer."

"And Tom can fire at their TOES and put them out of business,"
declared Ned, who was eagerly advancing. "How about it, Tom?"

"Well, I guess the electric rifle will come up to expectations. Say,
Mr. Durban, they seem to be heading this way!" excitedly cried Tom,
as the herd of big beasts suddenly turned and changed their course.

"Yes, they are," admitted the old elephant hunter calmly. "But that
won't matter. Take it easy. Kill all you can."

"But we don't want to put too many out of business," said Tom, who
was not needlessly cruel, even in hunting.

"I know that," answered Mr. Durban. "But this is a case of
necessity. I've got to get ivory, and we have to kill quite a few
elephants to accomplish this. Besides the brutes will head for the
village and the natives' grain fields, and trample them down, if
they're not headed back. So all together now, we'll give them a
volley. This is a good place! There they are. All line up now. Get
ready!"

He halted, and the others followed his example. The natives had come
to a stop some time before, and were huddled together in the jungle
back of our friends, waiting to see the result of the white men's
shots.

Tom, Ned, Mr. Damon, and the two older hunters were on an irregular
line in the forest. Before them was the mass of elephants advancing
slowly, and feeding on the tender leaves of trees as they came on.
They would reach up with their long trunks, strip off the foliage,
and stuff it into their mouths. Sometimes, they even pulled up small
trees by the roots for the purpose of stripping them more easily.

"Jove! There are some big tuskers in that bunch!" cried Mr. Durban.
"Aim for the bulls, every one, don't kill the mothers or little
ones." Tom now saw that there were a number of baby Elephants in the
herd, and he appreciated the hunter's desire to spare them and their
mothers.

"Here we go!" exclaimed Mr. Durban, as he saw that Tom and the
others were ready. "Aim! Fire!"

There were thundering reports that awoke the echoes of the jungle,
and the sounds of the rifles were followed by shrill trumpets of
rage. When the smoke blew away three elephants were seen prostrate,
or, rather two, and part of another one. The last was almost blown
to pieces by Tom Swift's electric rifle; for the young inventor had
used a little too heavy charge, and the big beast had been almost
annihilated.

Mr. Durban had dropped his bull with a well-directed shot, and Mr.
Anderson had a smaller one to his credit.

"I guess I missed mine," said Ned ruefully.

"Bless my dress-suit case!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "So did I!"

"One of you hit that fellow!" cried Mr. Durban. "He's wounded."

He pointed to a fair-sized bull who was running wildly about,
uttering shrill cries of anger. The other beasts had gathered in a
compact mass, with the larger bulls, or tuskers, on the outside, to
protect the females and young.

"I'll try a shot at him," said Tom, and raising his electric, gun,
he took quick aim. The elephant dropped in his tracks, for this time
the young inventor had correctly adjusted the power of the wireless
bullet.

"Good!" cried Mr. Durban. "Give them some more! This is some of the
best ivory I've seen yet!"

As he spoke he fired, and bowled over another magnificent specimen.
Ned Newton, determined to make a record of at least one, fired
again, and to his delight, saw a big fellow drop.

"I got him!" he yelled.

Mr. Anderson also got another, and then Mr. Damon, blessing
something which his friends could not make out, fired at one of the
largest bulls in the herd.

"You only nipped him!" exclaimed Mr. Durban when the smoke had
drifted away. "I guess I'll put him out of his misery!"

He raised his weapon and pulled the trigger but no report followed.
He uttered an exclamation of dismay.

"The breech-action has jammed!" he exclaimed. "Drop him, Tom. He's
scented us, and is headed this way. The whole herd will follow in a
minute."

Already the big brute wounded by Mr. Damon had trumpeted out a cry
of rage and defiance. It was echoed by his mates. Then, with
upraised trunk, he darted forward, followed by a score of big
tuskers.

But Tom had heard and understood. The leading beast had not taken
three steps before he dropped under the deadly and certain fire of
the young inventor.

"Bless my wishbone!" cried Mr. Damon when he saw how effective the
electric weapon was.

There was a shout of joy from the natives in the rear. They saw the
slain creatures and knew there would be much fresh meat and feasting
for them for days to come.

Suddenly Mr. Durban cried out: "Fire again, Tom! Fire everybody! The
whole herd is coming this way. If we don't stop them they'll overrun
the fields and village, and may smash the airship! Fire again!"

Almost as he spoke, the rush, which had been stopped momentarily,
when Tom dropped the wounded elephant, began again. With shrill
menacing cries the score of bulls in the lead came on, followed this
time by the females and the young.

"It's a stampede!" yelled Mr. Anderson, firing into the midst of the
herd. Mr. Durban was working frantically at his clogged rifle. Ned
and Mr. Damon both fired, and Tom Swift, adjusting his weapon to
give the heaviest charges, shot a fusillade of wireless bullets into
the center of the advancing elephants, who were now wild with fear
and anger.

"It's a stampede all right!" said Tom, when he saw that the big
creatures were not going to stop, in spite of the deadly fire poured
into them.




CHAPTER XV

LIONS IN THE NIGHT


Shouting, screaming, imploring their deities in general, and the
white men in particular for protection, the band of frightened
natives broke and ran through the jungle, caring little where they
went so long as they escaped the awful terror of the pursuing herd
of maddened elephants. Behind them came Tom Swift and the others,
for it were folly to stop in the path of the infuriated brutes.

"Our only chance is to get on their flank and try to turn them!"
yelled Mr. Durban. "We may beat them in getting to the clearing, for
the trail is narrow. Run, everybody!"

No one needed his excited advice to cause them to hurry. They
scudded along, Mr. Damon's cap falling off in his haste. But he did
not stop to pick it up.

The hunters had one advantage. They were on a narrow but well-cleared
trail through the jungle, which led from the village where they
were encamped, to another, several miles away. This trail was
too small for the elephants, and, indeed, had to be taken in single
file by the travelers.

But it prevented the elephants making the same speed as did our
friends, for the jungle, at this point, consisted of heavy trees,
which halted the progress of even the strongest of the powerful
beasts. True, they could force aside the frail underbrush and the
small trees, but the others impeded their progress.

"We'll get there ahead of them!" cried Tom. "Have you got your rifle
in working order yet, Mr. Durban?"

"No, something has broken, I fear. We'll have to depend on your
electric gun, Tom. Have you many charges left?"

"A dozen or so. But Ned and the others have plenty of ammunition."

"Don't count--on--me!" panted Mr. Damon, who was well-nigh
breathless from the run. "I--can't--aim--straight--any--more!"

"I'll give 'em a few more bullets!" declared Mr. Anderson.

The fleeing natives were now almost lost to sight, for they could
travel through the jungle, ignoring the trail, at high speed. They
were almost like snakes or animals in this respect. Their one
thought was to get to their village, and, if possible, protect their
huts and fields of grain from annihilation by the elephants.

Behind our friends, trumpeting, bellowing and crashing came the
pachyderms. They seemed to be gaining, and Tom, looking back, saw
one big brute emerge upon the trail, and follow that.

"I've got to stop him, or some of the others will do the same,"
thought the young inventor. He halted and fired quickly. The
elephant seemed to melt away, and Tom with regret, saw a pair of
fine tusks broken to bits. "I used too heavy a charge," he murmured,
as he took up the retreat again.

In a few minutes the party of hunters, who were now playing more in
the role of the hunted, came out into the open. They could hear the
natives beating on their big hollow tree drums, and on tom-toms,
while the witch-doctors and medicine men were chanting weird songs
to drive the elephants away.

But the beasts came on. One by one they emerged from the jungle,
until the herd was gathered together again in a compact mass. Then,
under the leadership of some big bulls, they advanced. It seemed as
if they knew what they were doing, and were determined to revenge
themselves by trampling the natives' huts under their ponderous
feet.

But Tom and the others were not idle. Taking a position off to one
side, the young inventor began pouring a fusillade of the electric
bullets into the mass of slate-colored bodies. Mr. Anderson was also
firing, and Ned, who had gotten over some of his excitement, was
also doing execution. Mr. Durban, after vainly trying to get his
rifle to work, cast it aside. "Here! Let me take your gun!" he cried
to Mr. Damon, who, panting from the run, was sitting beneath a tree.

"Bless my cartridge belt! Take it and welcome!" assented the
eccentric man. It still had several shots in the magazine, and these
the old hunter used with good effect.

At first it seemed as if the elephants could not be turned back.
They kept on rushing toward the village, which was not far away, and
Tom and the others followed at one side, as best they could, firing
rapidly. The electric rifle did fearful execution.

Emboldened by the fear that all their possessions would be destroyed
a body of the natives rushed out, right in front of the elephants,
and beat tom-toms and drums, almost under their feet, at the same
time singing wild songs.

"I'm afraid we can't stop them!" muttered Mr. Anderson. "We'd better
hurry to the airship, and protect that, Tom."

But, almost as he spoke, the tide of battle turned. The elephants
suddenly swung about, and began a retreat. They could not stand the
hot fire of the four guns, including Tom's fearful weapon. With wild
trumpetings they fled back into the jungle, leaving a number of
their dead behind.

"A close call," murmured Tom, as he drew a breath of relief. Indeed
this was true, for the tide had turned when the foremost elephants
were not a hundred feet away from the first rows of native huts.

"I should say it was," agreed Ned Newton, wiping his face with his
handkerchief. He, as well as the others, was an odd-looking sight.
They were blackened by powder smoke, scratched by briars, and red
from exertion.

"But we got more ivory in this hour than I could have secured in a
week of ordinary hunting," declared Mr. Durban. "If this keeps up we
won't have to get much more, except that I don't think any of the
tusks to-day are large enough for the special purpose of my
customer."

"The sooner we get enough ivory the quicker we can go to the rescue
of the missionaries," said Mr. Anderson.

"That's so," remarked Tom. "We must not forget the red pygmies."

The natives were now dancing about, wild in delight at the prospect
of unlimited eating, and also thankful for what the white men had
done for them. Alone, the blacks would never have been able to stop
the stampede. They were soon busy cutting up the elephants ready for
a big feast, and runners were sent to tell neighboring tribes, in
adjoining villages, of the delights awaiting them.

Mr. Durban gave instructions about saving the ivory tusks, and the
valuable teeth, each pair worth about $1,000, were soon cut out and
put away for our friends. Some had been lost by the excessive power
of Tom's gun, but this could not be helped. It was necessary to stop
the rush at any price.

There was soon a busy scene at the native village, and with the
arrival of other tribesmen it seemed as if Bedlam had broken loose.
The blacks chattered like so many children as they prepared for the
feast.

"Do white men ever eat elephant meat?" asked Mr. Damon, as the
adventurers were gathered about the airship.

"Indeed they do," declared Mr. Durban. "Baked elephant foot is a
delicacy that few appreciate. I'll have the natives cook some for
us."

He gave the necessary orders, and the travelers had to admit that it
was worth coming far to get.

For the next few days and nights there was great feasting in that
African village, and the praises of the white men, and power of Tom
Swift's electric rifle, were sung loud and long.

Our friends had resumed work on repairing the airship, and the young
inventor declared, one night, that they could proceed the next day.

They were seated around a small campfire, watching the dancing and
antics of some natives who were at their usual work of eating meat.
All about our friends were numerous blazes for the cooking of the
feasts, and some were on the very edge of the jungle.

Suddenly, above the uncouth sounds of the merry-making, there was
heard a deep vibration and roar, not unlike the distant rumble of
thunder or the hum of a great steamer's whistle heard afar in the
fog.

"What's that?" cried Ned.

"Lions," said Mr. Durban briefly. "They have been attracted by the
smell of cooking."

At that moment, and instantly following a very loud roar, there was
an agonized scream of pain and terror. It sounded directly in back
of the airship.

"A lion!" cried Mr. Anderson. "One of the brutes has grabbed a
native!"

Tom Swift caught up his rifle, and darted off toward the dark
jungle.




CHAPTER XVI

SEEKING THE MISSIONARIES


"Here! Come back!" yelled Mr. Damon and Mr. Anderson, in the same
breath, while the old elephant hunter cried out: "Don't you know
you're risking your life, Tom to go off in the dark, to trail a
lion?"

"I can't stand it to let the native be carried off!" Tom shouted
back.

"But you can't see in the dark," objected Mr. Anderson. He had
probably forgotten the peculiar property of the electric rifle. Tom
kept on, and the others slowly followed.

The natives had at once ceased their merrymaking at the roaring of
the lions, and now all were gathered close about the campfires, on
which more wood had been piled, to drive away the fearsome brutes.

"There must be a lot of them," observed Mr. Durban, as menacing
growls and roars came from the jungle, along the edge of which Tom
and the others were walking just then. "There are so many of the
brutes that they are bold, and they must be hungry, too. They came
close to our fire, because it wasn't so bright as the other blazes,
and that native must have wandered off into the forest. Well, I
guess it's all up with him."

"He's screaming yet," observed Ned.

Indeed, above the rumbling roars of the lions, and the crackling of
the campfires, could be heard the moaning cries of the unfortunate
black.

"He's right close here!" suddenly called Tom. "He's skirting the
jungle. I think I can get him!"

"Don't take any risks!" called Mr. Durban, who had caught up his own
rifle, that was now in working order again.

Tom Swift was not in sight. He had now penetrated into the jungle--into
the black forest where stalked the savage lions, intent on
getting other prey. Mr. Durban and Mr. Anderson vainly tried to
pierce the darkness to see something at which to shoot. Ned Newton
had eagerly started to follow his chum, but could not discern where
Tom was. A nameless fear clutched at the lad's heart. Mr. Damon was
softly blessing everything of which he could think.

Once more came that pitiful cry from the native, who was, as they
afterward learned, being dragged along by the lion, who had grabbed
him by the shoulder.

Suddenly in the dense jungle there shone a purple-bluish light. It
illuminated the scene like some great sky-rocket for an instant, and
in that brief time Ned and the others caught sight of a great, tawny
form, bounding along. It was a lion, with head held high, dragging
along a helpless black man.

A second later, and before the intense glare had died away, the
watchers saw the lion gently sink down, as though weary. He stopped
short in his tracks, his head rolled back, the jaws relaxed and the
native, who was unconscious now, toppled to one side.

"Tom's killed him with the electric rifle!" cried Mr. Durban.

"Bless my incandescent lamp! so he has," agreed Mr. Damon. "Bless my
dynamo! but that's a wonderful gun, it's as powerful as a
thunderbolt, or as gentle as a summer shower."

Mr. Durban seeing that the lion was dead, in that brief glance he
had had of the brute, called to some of the natives to come and get
their tribesman. They came, timidly enough at first, carrying many
torches, but when they understood that the lion was dead, they
advanced more boldly. They carried the wounded black to a hut, where
they applied their simple but effective remedies for the cruel bite
in his shoulder.

After Tom had shot several other of the illuminated charges into the
jungle, to see if he could discover any more lions, but failed to do
so, he and his friends returned to the anchored airship, amid the
murmured thanks of the Africans.

Bright fires were kept blazing all the rest of the night, but,
though lions could be heard roaring in the jungle, and though they
approached alarmingly close to the place where our friends were
encamped, none of the savage brutes ventured within the clearing.

With the valuable store of ivory aboard the Black Hawk, which was
now completely repaired, an early start was made the next morning.
The Africans besought Tom and his companions to remain, for it was
not often they could have the services of white men in slaying
elephants and lions.

"But, we've got to get on the trail," decided Tom, when the natives
had brought great stores of food, and such simple presents as they
possessed, to induce the travelers to remain.

"Every hour may add to the danger of the missionaries in the hands
of the red pygmies."

"Yes," said Mr. Anderson gravely, "it is our duty to save them."

And so the airship mounted into the air, our friends waving
farewells to the simple-hearted blacks, who did a sort of farewell
war-dance in their honor, shouting their praises aloud, and beating
the drums and tom-toms, so that the echoes followed for some time
after the Black Hawk had begun to mount upward toward the sky.

The craft was in excellent shape, due to the overhauling Tom had
given it while making the repairs. With the propellers beating the
air, and the rudder set to hold them about two thousand feet high,
the travelers moved rapidly over clearings, forests and jungles.

It was agreed that now, when they had made such a good start in
collecting ivory, that they would spend the next few days in trying
to get on the trail of the red pygmies. It might seem a simple
matter, after knowing the approximate location of the land of these
fierce little natives, to have proceeded directly to it. But Africa
is an immense continent, and even in an airship comparatively little
of the interior can be seen at a time.

Besides, the red pygmies had a habit of moving from place to place,
and they were so small, and so wild, capable of living in very tiny
huts or caves, and so primitive, not building regular villages as
the other Africans do, that as Ned said, they were as hard to locate
as the proverbial flea.

Our friends had a general idea of where to look for them, but on
nearing that land, and making inquiries of several friendly tribes,
they learned that the red pygmies had suddenly disappeared from
their usual haunts.

"I guess they heard that we were after them," said Tom, with a grim
smile one day, as he sent the airship down toward the earth, for
they were over a great plain, and several native villages could be
seen dotted on its surface.

"More likely they are in hiding because they have as captives two
white persons," said Mr. Anderson. "They are fierce and fearless,
but, nevertheless, they have, in times past, felt the vengeance of
the white man, and perhaps they dread that now."

They made a descent, and spent several days making inquiries from
the friendly blacks about the race of little men. But scarcely
anything was learned. Some of the negro tribes admitted having heard
of the red pygmies, and others, with superstitious incantations and
imprecations, said they had never heard of them.

One tribe of very large negroes had heard a rumor to the effect that
the band of the pygmies was several days' journey from their
village, across the mountains, and when Tom sent his airship there,
the searchers only found an impenetrable jungle, filled with lions
and other wild beasts, but not a sign of the pygmies, and with no
elephants to reward their search.

"But we're not going to give up," declared Tom, and the others
agreed with him. Forward went the Black Hawk in the search for the
imprisoned ones, but, as the days passed, and no news was had, it
seemed to grow more and more hopeless.

"I'm afraid if we do find them now," remarked Mr. Anderson at
length, "that we'll only recover the bodies of the missionaries."

"Then we'll avenge them," said Tom quietly.

They had stopped at another native village to make inquiries, but
without result, and were about to start off again that night when a
runner came in to announce that a herd of big elephants was feeding
not many miles away.

"Well, we'll stay over a day or so, and get some more ivory,"
decided Mr. Durban and that night they got ready for what was to
prove a big hunt.




CHAPTER XVII

SHOTS FROM ABOVE


"There they are!"

"My, what a lot of big ones!"

"Jove! Mr. Anderson, see those tusks!"

"Yes, you ought to get what you want this time, Mr. Durban."

"Bless my hatband! There must be two hundred of them!" exclaimed Mr.
Damon.

"I'm glad I recharged my rifle last night!" exclaimed Tom Swift.
"It's fully loaded now."

Then followed exulting cries and shouts of the natives, who were
following our friends, the elephant hunters, who had given voice to
the remarks we have just quoted.

It was early in the morning, and the hunt was about to start, for
the news brought in by the runner the night before had been closely
followed by the brutes themselves, and at dawn our friends were
astir, for scouts brought in word that the elephants, including many
big ones, were passing along only a few miles from the African
village.

Cautiously approaching, with the wind blowing from the elephants to
them, the white hunters made their way along. Mr. Durban was in the
lead, and when he saw a favorable opportunity he motioned for the
others to advance. Then, when he noticed the big bull sentinels of
the herd look about as if to detect the presence of enemies, he gave
another signal and the hunters sank out of sight in the tall grass.

As for the natives, they were like snakes, unseen but ever present,
wriggling along on their hands and knees. They were awaiting the
slaughter, when there would be fresh meat in abundance.

At length the old elephant hunter decided that they were near enough
to chance some shots. As a matter of fact, Tom Swift, with his
electric rifle, had been within range some time before, but as he
did not want to spoil the sport for the others, by firing and
killing, and so alarming the herd, he had held back. Now they could
all shoot together.

"Let her go!" suddenly cried Mr. Durban, and they took aim.

There was a fusillade of reports and several of the big brutes
toppled over.

"Bless my toothbrush!" cried Mr. Damon, "that's the time I got one!"

"Yes, and a fine specimen, too!" added Mr. Durban, who had only
succeeded in downing a small bull, with an indifferent pair of
tusks. "A fine specimen, Mr. Damon, I congratulate you!"

As for Tom Swift, he had killed two of the largest elephants in the
herd.

But now the hunters had their work cut out for them, since the
beasts had taken fright and were charging away at what seemed an
awkward gait, but which, nevertheless, took them rapidly over the
ground.

"Come on!" cried Mr. Durban. "We must get some more. Some of the
finest tusks I have ever seen are running away from us!"

He began to race after the retreating herd, but it is doubtful if he
would have caught up to them had not a band of natives, who had
crept up and surrounded the beasts, turned them by shouts and the
beating of tom-toms. Seeing an enemy in front of them, the elephants
turned, and our friends were able to get in several more shots. Tom
Swift picked out only those with immense tusks, and soon had several
to his credit. Ned Newton also bagged some prizes.

But finally the elephants, driven to madness by the firing and the
yells of the natives, broke through the line of black men, and
charged off into the jungle, where it was not only useless but
dangerous to follow them.

"Well, we have enough," said Mr. Durban, and when the tusks had been
collected it was found that indeed a magnificent and valuable supply
had been gathered.

"But I have yet to get my prize ones," said the old hunter with a
sigh. "Maybe we'll find the elephant with them when we locate the
red pygmies."

"If we do, we'll have our work cut out for us," declared Tom.

As on the other occasion after the hunt, there was a great feast for
the natives, who invited tribes from miles around, and for two days,
while the tusks were being cut out and cleaned, there were barbeques
on every side.

It was one afternoon, when they were seated in the shade of the
airship, cleaning their guns, and discussing the plans they had best
follow next, that our travellers suddenly heard a great commotion
amongst the Africans, who had for the past hour been very quiet,
most of them sleeping after the feasts. They yelled and shouted, and
began to beat their drums.

"Something is coming," said Ned.

"Perhaps there's going to be a fight," suggested Tom.

"Maybe it's the red pygmies," said Mr. Damon. "Bless my--"

But what he was going to bless he did not say, for at that instant
it seemed as if every native in sight suddenly disappeared, almost
like magic. They sank down into the grass, darted into their huts,
or hid in the tall grass.

"What can it be?" cried Tom, as he looked to see that his rifle was
in working order.

"Some enemy," declared Mr. Anderson.

"There they are!" cried Ned Newton, and as he spoke there burst into
view, coming from the tall grass that covered the plain about the
village, a herd of savage, wild buffaloes. On rushed the shaggy
creatures, their long, sharp horns seeming like waving spears as
they advanced.

"Here's more sport!" cried Tom.

"No! Not sport! Danger!" yelled Mr. Durban. "They're headed right
for us!"

"Then we'll stop them," declared the young inventor, as he raised
his gun.

"No! No!" begged the old hunter. "It's as much as our lives are
worth to try to stop a rush of wild buffaloes. You couldn't do it
with Gatling guns. We can kill a few, but the rest won't stop until
they've finished us and the aeroplane too."

"Then what's to be done?" demanded Mr. Anderson.

"Get into the airship!" cried Mr. Durban. "Send her up. It's the
only way to get out of their path. Then we can shoot them from
above, and drive them away!"

Quickly the adventurers leaped into the craft. On thundered the
buffaloes. Tom feared he could not get the motor started quickly
enough. He did not dare risk rising by means of the aeroplane
feature, but at once started the gas machine.

The big bag began to fill. Nearer came the wild creatures,
thundering over the ground, snorting and bellowing with rage.

"Quick, Tom!" yelled Ned, and at that instant the Black Hawk shot
upward, just as the foremost of the buffaloes passed underneath,
vainly endeavoring to gore the craft with their sweeping horns. The
air-travelers had risen just in time.

"Now it's our turn!" shouted Ned, as he began firing from above into
the herd of infuriated animals below him. Tom, after seeing that the
motor was working well, sent the airship circling about, while
standing in the steering tower, he guided his craft here and there,
meanwhile pouring a fusillade of his wireless bullets into the
buffaloes. Many of them dropped in their tracks, but the big herd
continued to rush here and there, crashing into the frail native
huts, tearing them down, and, whenever a black man appeared, chasing
after him infuriatedly.

"Keep at it!" cried Mr. Durban, as he poured more lead into the
buffaloes. "If we don't kill enough of them, and drive the others
away, there won't be anything left of this village."




CHAPTER XVIII

NEWS OF THE RED PYGMIES


Seldom had it been the lot of Tom and his companions to take part in
such a novel hunting scene as that in which they were now
participating. With the airship moving quickly about, darting here
and there under the guidance of the young inventor, the erratic
movements hither and thither of the buffaloes could be followed
exactly. Wherever the mass of the herd went the airship hovered over
them.

"Want any help, Tom?" called Ned, who was firing as fast as his gun
could be worked.

"I guess not," answered the steersman of the Black Hawk, who was
dividing his attention between managing the craft and firing his
electric rifle.

The others, too, were kept busy with their weapons, shooting down on
the infuriated animals. It seemed like a needless slaughter, but it
was not. Had it not been for the white men, the native village,
which consisted of only frail huts, would have been completely wiped
out by the animals. As it was they were kept "milling" about in a
circle in an open space, just as stampeded cattle on the western
ranges are kept from getting away, by being forced round and round.

Not a native was in sight, all being hidden away in the jungle or
dense grass. The white hunters in their airship had matters to
themselves.

At last the firing proved even too much for the buffaloes which, as
we have said, are among the most dreaded of African beasts. With
bellows of fear, the leading bulls of the herd unable to find the
enemy above their heads, darted off into the forest the way they had
come.

"There they go!" yelled Mr. Durban.

"Yes, and I'm glad to see the last of them," added Mr. Anderson,
with a breath of relief.

"Score another victory for the electric rifle," exclaimed Ned.

"Oh, you did as much execution as I did," declared the inventor of
the weapon.

"Bless my ramrod!" cried Mr. Damon. "I never shot so much in all my
life before."

"Yes, there is enough food to last the natives for a week," observed
Mr. Durban, as Tom adjusted the deflecting rudder to send the
airship down.

"It won't last much longer at the rate they eat," spoke the young
inventor with a laugh. "I never saw such fellows for appetites! They
seem to eat in their sleep."

There were many dead buffaloes, but there was no fear that the meat,
which was much prized by the Africans, would be wasted. Already the
natives were coming from their hiding places, knowing that the
danger was over. Once more they sang the praises of the mighty white
hunters, and the magical air craft in which they moved about.

With the elephants previously killed, the buffaloes provided
material for a great feast, preparations for which were at once
gotten under way, in spite of the fact that the blacks had hardly
stopped eating since the big hunt began. But it was about all they
had to do.

Some of the buffaloes were very large, and there were a number of
pairs of fine horns. Tom and Ned had some of the blacks cut them off
for trophies, and they were stored in the airship together with the
ivory.

Becoming rather tired of seeing so much feasting, our friends bade
the Africans farewell the next day, and once more resumed their
quest. They navigated through the air for another week, stopping at
several villages, and scanning the jungles and plains by means of
powerful telescopes, for a sight of the red pygmies. They also asked
for news of the sacking of the missionary settlement, but, beyond
meager facts, could learn nothing.

"Well, we've got to keep on, that's all," decided Mr. Durban. "We
may find them most unexpectedly."

"I'm sorry if I have taken you away from your work of gathering
ivory," spoke Mr. Anderson. "Perhaps you had better let me go, and
I'll see if I can't organize a band of friendly blacks, and search
for the red dwarfs myself."

"Not much!" exclaimed Tom warmly. "I said we'd help rescue those
missionaries, and we'll do it, too!"

"Of course," declared the old elephant hunter. "We have quite a lot
of ivory and, while we need more to make it pay well, we can look
for it after we rescue the missionaries as well as before. Perhaps
there will be a lot of elephants in the pygmies' land."

"I was only thinking that we can't go on forever in the airship."
said Mr. Anderson. "You'll have to go back to civilization soon,
won't you, Tom, to get gasolene?"

"No, we have enough for at least a month," answered the young
inventor. "I took aboard an unusually large supply when we started."

"What would happen if we ran out of it in the jungle?" asked Ned.

"Bless my pocketbook! What an unpleasant question!" exclaimed Mr.
Damon. "You are almost as cheerful, Ned, as was my friend Mr.
Parker, the gloomy scientist, who was always predicting dire
happenings."

"Well, I was only wondering," said Ned, who was a little abashed by
the manner in which his inquiry was received.

"Oh, it would be all right," declared Tom. "We would simply become a
balloon, and in time the wind would blow us to some white
settlement. There is plenty of material for making the lifting gas."

This was reassuring, and, somewhat easier in mind, Ned took his
place in the observation tower which looked down on the jungle over
which they were passing.

It was a dense forest. At times there could be seen, in the little
clearings, animals darting along. There were numbers of monkeys, an
occasional herd of buffaloes were observed, sometimes a solitary
stray elephant was noted, and as for birds, there were thousands of
them. It was like living over a circus, Ned declared.

They had descended one day just outside a large native village to
make inquiries about elephants and the red pygmies. Of the big
beasts no signs had been seen in several months, the hunters of the
tribe told Mr. Durban. And concerning the red pygmies, the blacks
seemed indisposed to talk.

Tom and the others could not understand this, until a witch-doctor,
whom the elephant hunter had met some time ago, when he was on a
previous expedition, told him that the tribe had a superstitious
fear of speaking of the little men.

"They may be around us--in the forest or jungle at any minute," the
witch-doctor said. "We never speak of them."

"Say, do you suppose that can be a clew?" asked Tom eagerly. "They
may be nearer at hand than we think."

"It's possible." admitted the hunter. "Suppose we stay here for a
few days, and I'll see if I can't get some of the natives to go off
scouting in the woods, and locate them, or at least put us on the
trail of the red dwarfs."

This was considered good advice, and it was decided to adopt it.
Accordingly the airship was put in a safe place, and our friends
prepared to spend a week, if necessary, in the native village. Their
presence with the wonderful craft was a source of wonder, and by
means of some trinkets judiciously given to the native king, and
also to his head subjects, and to the witch-doctors (who were a
power in the land), the good opinion of the tribe was won. Then, by
promising rewards to some of the bolder hunters, Mr. Durban finally
succeeded in getting them to go off scouting in the jungle for a
clew to the red pygmies.

"Now we'll have to wait," said Mr. Anderson, "and I hope we get good
news."

Our friends spent their time observing some of the curious customs
of the natives, and in witnessing some odd dances gotten up in their
honor. They also went hunting, and got plenty of game, for which
their hosts were duly grateful. Tom did some night stalking and
found his illuminating bullets a great success.

One hot afternoon Tom and Mr. Damon strolled off a little way into
the jungle, Tom with his electric weapon, in case he saw any game.
But no animals save a few big monkeys where to be seen, and the
young inventor scorned to kill them. It seemed too much like firing
at a human being he said, though the natives stated that some of the
baboons and apes were fierce, and would attack one on the slightest
provocation.

"I believe I'll sit down here and rest," said Tom, after a mile's
tramp, as he came to a little clearing in the woods.

"Very well, I'll go on," decided Mr. Damon. "Mr. Durban said there
were sometimes rare orchids in these jungles, and I am very fond of
those odd flowers. I'm going to see if I can get any."

He disappeared behind a fringe of moss-grown trees, and Tom sat
down, with his rifle across his knees. He was thinking of many
things, but chiefly of what yet lay before them--the discovery of
the red dwarfs and the possible rescue of the missionaries.

He might have been thus day-dreaming for perhaps a half hour, when
he suddenly heard great commotion in the jungle, in the direction in
which Mr. Damon had vanished. It sounded as though some one was
running rapidly. Then came the report of the odd man's gun.

"He's seen some game!" exclaimed Tom, jumping up, and preparing to
follow his friend. But he did not have the chance. An instant later
Mr. Damon burst through the bushes with every appearance of fright,
his gun held above his head with one hand, and his pith helmet
swaying to and fro in the other.

"They're coming!" he cried to Tom.

"Who, the red pygmies?"

"No, but a couple of rhinoceroses are after me. I wounded one, and
he and his mate are right behind. Don't let them catch me, Tom!"

Mr. Damon was very much alarmed, and there was good occasion for it,
as Tom saw a moment later, for two fierce rhinoceroses burst out of
the jungle almost on the heels of the fleeing man.

Thought was not quicker than Tom Swift. He raised his deadly rifle,
and pressed the button. A charge of wireless electricity shot toward
the foremost animal, and it was dropped in its tracks. The other
came on woofing and snorting with rage. It was the one Mr. Damon had
slightly wounded.

"Come on!" yelled the young inventor, for his friend was in front of
the beast, and in range with the rifle. "Jump to one side, Mr.
Damon."

Mr. Damon tried, but his foot slipped, and there was no need for
jumping. He fell and rolled over. The rhinoceros swerved toward him,
with the probable intention of goring the prostrate man with the
formidable horn, but it had no chance. Once more the young inventor
fired, this time with a heavier charge, and the animal instantly
toppled over dead.

"Are you hurt?" asked Tom anxiously, as he ran to his friend. Mr.
Damon got up slowly. He felt all over himself, and then answered:

"No, Tom, I guess I'm not hurt, except in my dignity. Never again
will I fire at a sleeping rhinoceros unless you are with me. I had a
narrow escape," and he shook Tom's hand heartily.

"Did you see any orchids?" asked the lad with a smile.

"No, those beasts didn't give me a chance! Bless my tape measure!
but they're big fellows!"

Indeed they were fine specimens, and there was the usual rejoicing
among the natives when they brought in the great bodies, pulling
them to the village with ropes made of vines.

After this Mr. Damon was careful not to go into the jungle alone,
nor, in fact, did any of our friends so venture. Mr. Durban said it
was not safe.

They remained a full week in the native village, and received no
news. In fact, all but one of the hunters came back to report that
there was no sign of the red pygmies in that neighborhood.

"Well, I guess we might as well move on, and see what we can do
ourselves," said Mr. Durban.

"Let's wait until the last hunter comes back," suggested Tom. "He
may bring word."

"Some of his friends think he'll never come back," remarked Mr.
Anderson.

"Why not?" asked Ned.

"They think he has been killed by some wild beast."

But this fear was ungrounded. It was on the second day after the
killing of the rhinoceroses that, as Tom was tinkering away in the
engine-room of the airship, and thinking that perhaps they had
better get under way, that a loud shouting was heard among the
natives.

"I wonder what's up now?" mused the young inventor as he went
outside. He saw Mr. Durban and Mr. Anderson running toward the ship.
Behind them was a throng of blacks, led by a weary man whom Tom
recognized as the missing hunter. The lad's heart beat high with
hope. Did the African bring news?

On came Mr. Durban, waving his hands to Tom.

"We've located 'em!" he shouted.

"Not the red pygmies?" asked Tom eagerly.

"Yes; this hunter has news of them. He has been to the border of
their country, and narrowly escaped capture. Then he was attacked by
a lion, and slightly wounded. But, Tom, now we can get on the
trail!"

"Good!" cried the young inventor. "That's fine news!" and he
rejoiced that once more there would be activity, for he was tired of
remaining in the African camp, and then, too, he wanted to proceed
to the rescue. Already it might be too late to save the unfortunate
missionaries.




CHAPTER XIX

AN APPEAL FOR HELP


The African hunter's story was soon told. He had gone on farther
than had any of his companions, and, being a bold and brave man, had
penetrated into the very fastness of the jungle where few would dare
to venture.

But even he had despaired of getting on the trail of the fierce
little red men, until one afternoon, just at dusk he had heard
voices in the forest. Crouching behind a fallen tree, he waited and
saw passing by some of the pygmy hunters, armed with bows and
arrows, and blowguns. They had been out after game. Cautiously the
hunter followed them, until he located one of their odd villages,
which consisted of little mud huts, poorly made.

The black hunter remained in the vicinity of the pygmies all that
night, and was almost caught, for some wild dogs which hung around
the village smelled him out, and attracted to him the attention of
the dwarf savages. The hunter took to a tree, and so escaped. Then,
carefully marking the trail, he came away in the morning. When near
home, a lion had attacked him, but he speared the beast to death,
after a hand-to-hand struggle in which his leg was torn.

"And do you think we can find the place?" asked Ned, when Mr. Durban
had finished translating the hunter's story.

"I think so," was the reply.

"But is this the settlement where the missionaries are?" asked Tom
anxiously.

"That is what we don't know," said Mr. Anderson. "The native scout
could not learn that. But once we get on the trail of the dwarfs, I
think we can easily find the particular tribe which has the
captives."

"At any rate, we'll get started and do something," declared Tom, and
the next day, after the African hunter had described, as well as he
could, where the place was, the Black Hawk was sent up into the air,
good-bys were called down, and once more the adventurers were under
way.

It was decided that they had better proceed cautiously, and lower
the airship, and anchor it, sometime before getting above the place
where the pygmy village was.

"For they may see us, and, though they don't know what our craft is,
they may take the alarm and hide deeper in the jungle with the
prisoners, where we can't find them," said Tom.

His plan was adopted, and, while it had taken the native hunter
several days to reach the borders of the dwarfs' land, those in the
airship made the trip in one day. That is, they came as far toward
it as they thought would be safe, and one night, having located a
landmark which Mr. Durban said was on the border, the nose of the
Black Hawk was pointed downward, and soon they were encamped in a
little clearing in the midst of the dense jungle which was all about
them.

With his electric rifle, Tom noiselessly killed some birds, very
much like chicken, of which an excellent meal was made and then, as
it became dark very early, and as nothing could be done, they
lighted a campfire, and retired inside their craft to pass the
night.

It must have been about midnight that Tom, who was a light sleeper
at times, was awakened by some noise outside the window near which
his stateroom was. He sat up and listened, putting out his hand to
where his rifle stood in the corner near his bunk. The lad heard
stealthy footsteps pattering about on the deck of the airship. There
was a soft, shuffling sound, such as a lion or a tiger makes, when
walking on bare boards. In spite of himself, Tom felt the hair on
his head beginning to creep, and a shiver ran down his back.

"There's something out there!" he whispered. "I wonder if I'd better
awaken the others? No, if it's a sneaking lion, I can manage to kill
him, but--"

He paused as another suggestion came to him.

The red pygmies! They went barefoot! Perhaps they were swarming
about the ship which they might have discovered in the darkness.

Tom Swift's heart beat rapidly. He got softly out of his bunk, and,
with his rifle in hand made his way to the door opening on deck. On
his way he gently awakened Ned and Mr. Durban, and whispered to them
his fear.

"If the red pygmies are out there we'll need all our force," said
the old elephant hunter. "Call Mr. Damon and Mr. Anderson, Ned, and
tell them to bring their guns."

Soon they were all ready, fully armed. They listened intently. The
airship was all in darkness, for lights drew a horde of insects. The
campfire had died down. The soft footsteps could still be heard
moving about the deck.

"That sounds like only one person or animal," whispered Ned.

"It does," agreed Tom. "Wait a minute, I'll fire an illuminating
charge, and we can see what it is."

The others posted themselves at windows that gave a view of the
deck. Tom poked his electric rifle out of a crack of the door, and
shot forth into the darkness one of the blue illuminations. The deck
of the craft was instantly lighted up brilliantly, and in the glare,
crouched on the deck, could be seen a powerful black man, nearly
naked, gazing at the hunters.

"A black!" gasped Tom, as the light died out. "Maybe it is one from
the village we just left. What do you want? Who are you?" called the
lad, forgetting that the Africans spoke only their own language. To
the surprise of all, there came his reply in broken English:

"Me Tomba! Me go fo' help for Missy Illingway--fo' Massy Illingway.
Me run away from little red men! Me Christian black man. Oh, if you
be English, help Missy Illingway--she most die! Please help. Tomba
go but Tomba be lost! Please help!"




CHAPTER XX

THE FIGHT


Surprise, for the moment, held Tom and the others speechless. To be
answered in English, poor and broken as it was, by a native African,
was strange enough, but when this same African was found aboard the
airship, in the midst of the jungle, at midnight, it almost passed
the bounds of possibility.

"Tomba!" mused Tom, wondering where he had heard that name before.
"Tomba?"

"Of course!" cried Mr. Anderson, suddenly. "Don't you remember?
That's the name of the servant of Mr. and Mrs. Illingway, who
escaped and brought news of their capture by the pygmies. That's who
Tomba is."

"Yes, but Tomba escaped," objected Mr. Durban. "He went to the white
settlements with the news. How comes he here?"

"We'll have to find out," said Tom, simply. "Tomba, are you there?"
he called, as he fired another illuminating charge. It disclosed the
black man standing up on the deck, and looking at them appealingly.

"Yes, Tomba here," was the answer. "Oh, you be English, Tomba know.
Please help Missy and Massy Illingway. Red devils goin' kill 'em
pretty much quick."

"Come in!" called Tom, as he turned on the electric lights in the
airship. "Come in and tell us all about it. But how did you get
here?"

"Maybe there are two Tombas," suggested Ned.

"Bless my safety razor!" cried Mr. Damon "perhaps Ned is right!"

But he wasn't, as they learned when they had questioned the African,
who came inside the airship, looking wonderingly around at the many
strange things he saw. He was the same Tomba who had escaped the
massacre, and had taken news of the capture of his master and
mistress to the white settlement. In vain after that he had tried to
organize a band to go back with him to the rescue, but the whites in
the settlement were too few, and the natives too timid. Then Tomba,
with grief in his heart, and not wanting to live while the
missionaries whom he had come to care for very much, were captives,
he went back into the jungle, determined, if he could not help them,
that at least he would share their fate, and endeavor to be of some
service to them in their captivity.

After almost unbelievable hardships, he had found the red pygmies,
and had allowed himself to be captured by them. They rejoiced
greatly in the possession of the big black man, and for some strange
reason had not killed him. He was allowed to share the captivity of
his master and mistress.

Time went on, and the pygmies did not kill their prisoners. They
even treated them with some kindness but were going to sacrifice
them at their great annual festival, which was soon to take place.
Mr. and Mrs. Illingway, Tomba told our friends in his broken
English, had urged him to escape at the first opportunity. They knew
if he could get away he would travel through the jungle. They could
not, even if they had not been so closely guarded that escape was
out of the question.

But Tomba refused to go until Mr. Illingway had said that perhaps he
might get word to some white hunters, and so send help to the
captives. This Tomba consented to do, and, watching his chance, he
did escape. That was several nights ago, and he had been traveling
through the jungle ever since. It was by mere accident that he came
upon the anchored airship, and his curiosity led him to board her.
The rest is known.

"Well, of all queer yarns, this is the limit!" exclaimed Tom, when
the black had finished. "What had we better do about it?"

"Get ready to attack the red pygmies at once!" decided Mr. Durban.
"If we wait any longer it may be too late!"

"My idea, exactly," declared Mr. Anderson.

"Bless my bowie-knife!" cried Mr. Damon. "I'd like to get a chance
at the red imps! Come on, Tom! Let's start at once."

"No, we need daylight to fight by," replied Tom, with a smile at his
friend's enthusiasm. "We'll go forward in the morning."

"In the airship?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I think so," answered Tom. "There can be no advantage now in trying
to conceal ourselves. We can move upon them from where we are so
quickly that they won't have much chance to get away. Besides it
will take us too long to make our way through the jungle afoot. For,
now that the escape of Tomba must be known, they may kill the
captives at once to forestall any rescue."

"Then we'll move forward in the morning," declared Mr. Durban.

They took Tomba with them in the airship the next day, though he
prayed fervently before he consented to it. But they needed him to
point out the exact location of the pygmies' village, since it was
not the one the hunter-scout had been near.

The Black Hawk sailed through the air. On board eager eyes looked
down for a first sight of the red imps. Tomba, who was at Tom's side
in the steering tower, told him, as best he could, from time to
time, how to set the rudders.

"Pretty soon by-em-by be there," said the black man at length. "Pass
ober dat hill, den red devils live."

"Well, we'll soon be over that hill," announced Tom grimly. "I guess
we'd better get our rifles ready for the battle."

"Are you going to attack them at once?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Well," answered the young inventor, "I don't believe we ought to
kill any of them if we can avoid it. I don't like to do such a thing
but, perhaps we can't help ourselves. My plan is to take the airship
down, close to the hut where the missionaries are confined. Tomba
can point it out to us. If we can rescue them without bloodshed, so
much the better. But we'll fight if we have to."

Grimly they watched as the airship sailed over the hill. Then
suddenly there came into view a collection of mud huts on a vast
plain, surrounded by dense jungle on every side. As the travelers
looked, they could see little creatures running wildly about. Even
without a glass it could be noted that their bodies were covered
with a curious growth of thick sandy hair.

"The red pygmies!" cried Tom. "Now for the rescue!"

Eagerly Tomba indicated the hut where his master and mistress were
held. Telling his friends to have their weapons in readiness, Tom
steered the airship toward the rude shelter whence he hoped to take
the missionaries. Down to the ground swiftly shot the Black Hawk.
Tom checked her with a quick movement of the deflecting rudder, and
she landed gently on the wheels.

"Mr. Illingway! Mrs. Illingway! We have come to rescue you!" yelled
the young inventor, as he stepped out on the deck, with his electric
rifle in his hand. "Where are you? Can you come out?"

The door of the hut was burst open, and a white man and woman,
recognizable as such, even in the rude skins that clothed them,
rushed out. Wonder spread over their faces as they saw the great
airship. They dropped on their knees.

The next instant a swarm of savage little red men surrounded them,
and rudely bore them, strugglingly, back into the hut.

"Come on!" cried Tom, about to leap to the ground. "It's now or
never! We must save them!"

Mr. Durban pulled him back, and pointed to a horde of the red-haired
savages rushing toward the airship. "They'd tear you to pieces in a
minute!" cried the old hunter. "We must fight them from the ship."

There was a curious whistling sound in the air. Mr. Durban looked
up.

"Duck, everybody!" he yelled. "They're firing arrows at us! Get
under shelter, for they may be poisoned!"

Tom and the others darted into the craft. The arrows rattled on deck
in a shower, and hundreds of the red imps were rushing up to give
battle. Inside the hut where the missionaries were, it was now
quiet. Tom Swift wondered if they still lived.

"Give 'em as good as they send!" cried Mr. Durban. "We will have to
fire at them now. Open up with your electric rifle, Tom!"

As he spoke the elephant hunter fired into the midst of the
screaming savages. The battle had begun.




CHAPTER XXI

DRIVEN BACK


What the travelers had heard regarding the fierceness and courage of
the red pygmies had not been one bit exaggerated. Never had such
desperate fighting ever taken place. The red dwarfs, scarcely one of
whom was more than three feet high, were strongly built, and there
were so many of them, and they battled together with such singleness
of purpose, that they were more formidable than a tribe of ordinary-sized
savages would have been.

And their purpose was to utterly annihilate the enemy that had so
unexpectedly come upon them. It did not matter to them that Tom and
the others had arrived in an airship. The strange craft had no
superstitious terror for them, as it had for the simpler blacks.

"Bless my multiplication tables!" cried Mr. Damon. "What a mob of
them!"

"Almost too many!" murmured Tom Swift, who was rapidly firing his
electric rifle at them. "We can never hope to drive them back, I'm
afraid."

Indeed from every side of the plain, and even from the depths of the
jungle the red dwarfs were now pouring. They yelled most horribly,
screaming in rage, brandishing their spears and clubs, and keeping
up an incessant fire of big arrows from their bows, and smaller ones
from the blowguns.

As yet none of our friends had been hit, for they were sheltered in
the airship, and as the windows were covered with a mesh of wire, to
keep out insects, this also served to prevent the arrows from
entering. There were loopholes purposely made to allow the rifles to
be thrust out.

Mercifully, Tom and the others fired only to disable, and not to
kill the red pygmies. Wounded in the arms or legs, the little
savages would be incapable of fighting, and this plan was followed.
But so fierce were they that some, who were wounded twice, still
kept up the attack.

Tom's electric rifle was well adapted for this work, as he could
regulate the charge to merely stun, no matter at what part of the
body it was directed. So he could fire indiscriminantly, whereas the
others had to aim carefully. And Tom's fire was most effective. He
disabled scores of the red imps, but scores of others sprang up to
take their places.

After their first rush the pygmies had fallen back before the
well-directed fire of our friends, but as their chiefs and head men
urged them to the attack again, they came back with still fiercer
energy. Some, more bold than the others, even leaped to the deck of the
airship, and tried to tear the screens from the windows. They partly
succeeded, and in one casement from which Ned was firing they made a
hole.

Into this they shot a flight of arrows, and one slightly wounded the
bank clerk on the arm. The wound was at once treated with
antiseptics, after the window had been barricaded, and Ned declared
that he was ready to renew the fight. Tom, too, got an arrow scratch
on the neck, and one of the barbs entered Mr. Durban's leg, but the
sturdy elephant hunter would not give up, and took his place again
after the wound had been bandaged.

From time to time as he worked his electric gun, which had been
charged to its utmost capacity, Tom glanced at the hut where the
missionaries were prisoners. There was no movement noticed about it,
and no sound came from it. Tom wondered what had happened inside--he
wondered what was happening as the battle progressed.

Fiercely the fight was kept up. Now the red imps would be driven
back, and again they would swarm about the airship, until it seemed
as if they must overwhelm it. Then the fire of the white adventurers
was redoubled. The electric rifle did great work, and Tom did not
have to stop and refill the magazine, as did the others.

Suddenly, above the noise of the conflict, Tom Swift heard an
ominous sound. It was a hissing in the air, and well he knew what it
was.

"The gas bag!" he cried. "They've punctured it! The vapor is
escaping. If they put too many holes in the bag it will be all up
with us!"

"What's to be done?" asked Mr. Durban.

"If we can't drive them back we must retreat ourselves!" declared
Tom desperately. "Our only hope is to keep the airship safe from
harm."

Once more came a rush of the savages. They had discovered that the
gas bag was vulnerable, and were directing their arrows against
that. It was punctured in several more places. The gas was rapidly
escaping.

"We've got to retreat!" yelled Tom. He hurried to the engine-room,
and turned on the power. The great propellers revolved, and sent the
Black Hawk scudding across the level plain. With yells of surprise
the red dwarfs scattered and made way for it.

Up into the air it mounted on the broad wings. For the time being
our friends has been driven back, and the missionaries whom they had
come to rescue were still in the hands of the savages.




CHAPTER XXII

A NIGHT ATTACK


"Well, what's to be done?"

Tom Swift asked that question.

"Bless my percussion cap! They certainly are the very worst imps for
fighting that I ever heard of," commented Mr. Damon helplessly.

"Is the gas bag much punctured?" asked Ned Newton.

"Wait a minute," resumed the young inventor, as he pulled the speed
lever a trifle farther over, thereby sending the craft forward more
swiftly, "I think my question ought to be answered first. What's to
be done? Are we going to run away, and leave that man and woman to
their fate?"

"Of course not!" declared Mr. Durban stoutly, "but we couldn't stay
there, and have them destroy the airship."

"No, that's so," admitted Tom, "if we lost the airship it would be
all up with us and our chances of rescuing the missionaries. But
what can we do? I hate to retreat!"

"But what else is there left for us?" demanded Ned.

"Nothing, of course. But we've got to plan to get the best of those
red pygmies. We can't go back in the airship, and give them open
battle. There are too many of them, and, by Jove! I believe more are
coming every minute!"

Tom and the others looked down. From all sides of the plain,
hastening toward the village of mud huts, from which our friends
were retreating, could be seen swarms of the small but fierce
savages. They were coming from the jungle, and were armed with war
clubs, bows and arrows and the small but formidable blowguns.

"Where are they coming from?" asked Mr. Damon.

"From the surrounding tribes," explained Mr. Durban. "They have been
summoned to do battle against us."

"But how did the ones we fought get word to the others so soon?" Ned
demanded.

"Oh, they have ways of signaling," explained Mr. Anderson. "They can
make the notes of some of their hollow-tree drums carry a long
distance, and then they are very swift runners, and can penetrate
into the jungle along paths that a white man would hardly see. They
also use the smoke column as a signal, as our own American Indians
used to do. Oh, they can summon all their tribesmen to the fight,
and they probably will. Likely the sound of our guns attracted the
imps, though if we all had electric rifles like Tom's they wouldn't
make any noise."

"Well, my rifle didn't appear to do so very much good this time,"
observed the young inventor, as he stopped the forward motion of the
ship now, and let it hover over the plain in sight of the village,
the gas bag serving to sustain the craft, and there was little wind
to cause it to drift. "Those fellows didn't seem to mind being hurt
and killed any more than if mosquitoes were biting them."

"The trouble is we need a whole army, armed with electric rifles to
make a successful attack," said Mr. Durban. "There are swarms of
them there now, and more coming every minute. I do hope Mr. and Mrs.
Illingway are alive yet."

"Yes," added Mr. Anderson solemnly, "we must hope for the best. But,
like Tom Swift, I ask, what's to be done?"

"Bless my thinking cap!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "It seems to me if we
can't fight them openly in the daytime, there's only one other thing
to do."

"What's that?" asked Tom. "Go away? I'll not do it!"

"No, not go away," exclaimed Mr. Damon, "but make a night attack. We
ought to be able to do something then, and with your illuminating
rifle, Tom, we'd have an advantage! What do you say?"

"I say it's the very thing!" declared Tom, with sudden enthusiasm.
"We'll attack them to-night, when they're off their guard, and we'll
see if we can't get the missionaries out of that hut. And to better
fool the savages, we'll just disappear now, and make 'em believe
we've flown away."

"Then the missionaries will think we're deserting them," objected
Mr. Anderson.

But there was no help for it, and so Tom once more turned on the
power and the craft sailed away.

Tomba, the faithful black, begged to be allowed to go down, and tell
his master and mistress that help would soon be at hand again, even
though it looked like a retreat on the part of the rescuers, but
this could not be permitted.

"They'd tear you in pieces as soon as you got among those red imps,"
said Tom. "You stay here, Tomba, and you can help us to-night."

"A'right, me glad help lick red fellows," said the black, with as
cheerful a grin as he could summon.

The Black Hawk circled around, with Tom and the others looking for a
good place to land. They were out of sight of the village now but
did not doubt but that they were observed by the keen eyes of the
little men.

"We want to pick out a place where they won't come upon us as we
descend," declared Tom. "We've got to mend some leaks in the gas
bag, for, while they are not serious, if we get any more punctures
they may become so. So we've got to pick out a good place to go
down."

Finally, by means of powerful glasses, a desolate part of the jungle
was selected. No files of the red dwarfs, coming from their
scattered villages to join their tribesmen, had been noted in the
vicinity picked out, and it was hoped that it would answer. Slowly
the airship settled to earth, coming to rest in a thick grove of
trees, where there was an opening just large enough to allow the
Black Hawk to enter.

Our friends were soon busy repairing the leaks in the bag, while Mr.
Damon got a meal ready. As they ate they talked over plans for the
night attack.

It was decided to wait until it was about two o'clock in the
morning, as at that hour the dwarfs were most generally asleep,
Tomba said. They always stayed up quite late, sitting around camp-fires,
and eating the meat which the hunters brought in each day. But their
carousings generally ended at midnight, the black said, and then they
fell into a heavy sleep. They did not post guards, but since they knew
of the presence of the white men in the airship, they might do it
this time.

"Well, we've got to take our chance," decided Tom. "We'll start off
from here about one o'clock, and I'll send the ship slowly along.
We'll get right over the hut where the captives are, if possible,
and then descend. I'll manage the ship, and one of you can work the
electric rifle if they attack us. We'll make a dash, get Mr. and
Mrs. Illingway from the hut, and make a quick get-away."

It sounded good, and they were impatient to put it into operation.
That afternoon Tom and his friends went carefully over every inch of
their craft, to repair it and have it in perfect working order. Guns
were cleaned, and plenty of ammunition laid out. Then, shortly after
one o'clock in the morning the ship was sent up, and with the
searchlight ready to be turned on instantly, and with his electric
rifle near at hand, Tom Swift guided his craft on to the attack.
Soon they could see the glow of dying fires in the dwarfs' village,
but no sound came from the sleeping hordes of red imps.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE RESCUE


"Can you make out the hut, Tom?" asked Ned, as he stood at his
chum's side in the steering tower, and gazed downward on the silent
village.

"Not very clearly. Suppose you take a look through the night-glasses.
Maybe you'll have better luck."

Ned peered long and earnestly.

"No, I can't see a thing." he said. "It all looks to be a confused
jumble of huts. I can't tell one from the other. We'll have to go
lower."

"I don't want to do that," objected Tom. "If this attack succeeds at
all, it will have to be sharp and quick. If we go down where they
can spot us, and work our way up to the hut where the captives are,
we'll run the chance of an attack that may put us out of business."

"Yes, we ought to get right over the hut, and then make a sudden
swoop down," admitted Ned, "but if we can't see it--"

"I have it!" cried Tom suddenly. "Tomba! That African can see in the
dark like a cat. Why, just before we started I dropped a wrench, and
I didn't have any matches handy to look for it. I was groping around
in the dark trying to get my hands on it, and you know it was pretty
black in the jungle. Well, along come Tomba. And he spotted it at
once and picked it up. We'll call him here and get him to point out
the hut. He can tell me how to steer."

"Good!" cried Ned, and the black was soon standing in the pilot
house. He comprehended what was wanted of him, and peered down,
seeking to penetrate the darkness.

"Shall I go down a little lower?" asked Tom.

For a moment Tomba did not answer. Then he uttered an exclamation of
pleasure.

"Me see hut!" he said, clutching Tom's arm. "Down dere!" He pointed,
but neither Tom nor Ned could see it. However, as Tomba was now
giving directions, telling Tom when to go to the left or the right,
as the wind currents deflected they were certain of soon reaching
the place where Mr. and Mrs. Illingway were concealed, if they were
still alive.

The Black Hawk was moving slowly, and was not under as good control
as if she had been making ninety miles an hour. As it was desired to
proceed as quietly as possible, the craft was being used as a
dirigible balloon, and the propellers were whirled around by means
of a small motor, worked by a storage battery. While not much power
was obtained this way, there was the advantage of silence, which was
very necessary. Slowly the Black Hawk sailed on through the night.
In silence the adventurers waited for the moment of action. They had
their weapons in readiness. Mr. Durban was to work the electric
rifle, as all Tom's attention would be needed at the machinery. As
soon as the craft had made a landing he was to leap out, carrying a
revolver in either hand, and, followed by Tomba, would endeavor to
gain entrance to the hut, break through the flimsy grass-woven
curtain over the doorway, and get Mr. and Mrs. Illingway out. Ned,
Mr. Damon and the other two men would stand by to fire on the red
pygmies as soon as they commenced the attack, which they would
undoubtedly do as soon as the guards of the captives raised the
alarm.

The airship was in darkness, for it would have been dangerous to
show a light. Some wakeful dwarf might see the moving illumination
in the sky, and raise a cry.

"Mos' dere," announced Tomba at length. And then, for the first
time, Ned and Tom had a glimpse of the hut. It stood away from the
others, and was easy to pick out in daylight, but even the darkness
offered no handicap to Tomba. "Right over him now," he suddenly
called, as he leaned out of the pilot house window, and looked down.
"Right over place. Oh, Tomba glad when he see Missy an' Massy!"

"Yes, I hope you do see them," murmured Tom, as he pulled the lever
which would pump the gas from the inflated bag, and compress it into
tanks, until it was needed again to make the ship rise. Slowly the
Black Hawk sank down.

"Get ready!" called Tom in a low voice.

It was a tense moment. Every one of the adventurers felt it, and all
but Tom grasped their weapons with tighter grips. They were ready to
spring out as soon as a landing was made. Tom managed the machinery
in the dark, for he knew every wheel, gear and lever, and could have
put his hand on any one with his eyes shut. The two loaded revolvers
were on a shelf in front of him. The side door of the pilot house
was ajar, to allow him quick egress.

Tomba, armed with a big club he had picked up in the jungle, was
ready to follow. The black was eager for the fray to begin, though
how he and the others would fare amid the savages was hard to say.

Still not a sound broke the quiet. It was very dark, for nearly all
the camp fires, over which the nightly feast had been prepared, were
out. The hut could be dimly made out, however.

Suddenly there was a slight tremor through the ship. She seemed to
shiver, and bound upward a little.

"We've landed!" whispered Tom. "Now for it! Come on, Tomba!"

The big black glided after the lad like a shadow. With his two
weapons held in readiness our hero went out on deck. The others,
with cocked rifles, stood ready for the attack to open. It had been
decided that as soon as the first alarm was given by the dwarfs,
which would probably be when Tom broke into the hut, the firing
would begin.

"Open!" called Tom to Tomba, and the big black dashed his club
through the grass curtain over the doorway of the hut. He fairly
leaped inside, with a cry of battle on his lips.

"Mr. Illingway! Mrs. Illingway!" called Tom, "We've come to save
you. Hurry out. The airship is just outside!"

He fired one shot through the roof of the hut, so that the flash
would reveal to him whether or not the two missionaries were in the
place. He saw two forms rise up in front of him, and knew that they
were the white captives he had observed daring the former attack.

"Oh, what is it?" he heard the woman ask.

"A rescue! Thank the dear Lord!" answered her husband fervently.
"Oh, whoever you are, God bless you!"

"Come quickly!" cried Tom, "we haven't a moment to lose!"

He was speaking to absolute blackness now, for it was darker
immediately following the revolver flash than before. But he felt a
man's hand thrust about his arm, and he knew it was Mr. Illingway.

"Take your wife's hand, and follow me," ordered Tom. "Come, Tomba!
Are there any of the red pygmies in here?"

He had not seen any at the weapon's flash, but his question was
answered a moment later, for there arose from within and without the
hut a chorus of wild yells. At the same time Tom felt small arms
grasp him about the legs.

"Come on!" he yelled. "They're awake and after us!"

The din outside increased. Tom heard the rifles of his friends
crack. He saw, through the torn door curtain, the flashes of fire.
Then came a blue glare, and Tom knew that Mr. Durban was using the
electric weapon.

By these intermittent gleams Tom managed to see sufficiently to
thrust Mr. and Mrs. Illingway ahead of him. Tomba was at their side.
The yells inside the hut were almost deafening. All the red dwarfs
left to guard the captives had awakened, and they could see well
enough to attack Tom. Fortunately they had no weapons, but they
fairly threw themselves upon the sturdy lad, trying to pull him
down.

"Go on! Go on!" he yelled to the captives, fairly pushing them
along. Then, knowing they were out of the way, he turned and fired
his two revolvers as fast as he could pull the triggers, into the
very faces of the red imps who were seeking to drag him down. Again
and again he fired, until he had emptied both cylinders of his
weapons.

He felt the grasps of the fiendish little men relax one by one. Tom
finally dragged himself loose, and staggered out of the hut. The
captives and Tomba were right in front of him. At the airship, which
loomed up in the flashes from the guns and electric rifle, Tom's
friends were giving battle. About them swarmed the hordes of
savages, with more of the imps pouring in every moment.

"Get aboard!" cried Tom to the missionaries. "Get on the airship,
and we'll move out of this!"

He felt a stinging pain in his neck, where an arrow struck him. He
tore the arrow out, and rushed forward. Fairly pushing Mr. and Mrs.
Illingway up on deck before him, Tom followed. Tomba was capering
about his master and mistress, and he swung his big club savagely.
He had not been idle, and many a red imp had gone down under his
blows.

"Rescued! Rescued!" murmured Mr. Illingway, as Tom hastened to the
pilot house to start the motor.




CHAPTER XXIV

TWO OTHER CAPTIVES


But the rescue was not yet accomplished. Those on the airship were
still in danger, and grave peril, for all about them were the red
savages, shouting, howling, yelling and capering about, as they were
now thoroughly aroused, and realized that their captives had been
taken away from them. They determined to get them back, and were
rallying desperately to battle. Nearly all of them were armed by
this time, and flight after flight of spears and arrows were thrown
or shot toward the airship.

Fortunately it was too dark to enable the pygmies to take good aim.
They were guided, to an extent, by the flashes of fire from the
rifles, but these were only momentary. Still some of our friends
received slight wounds, for they stood on the open deck of the
craft.

"Bless my eye-glasses!" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I'm stuck!"

"Don't mind that!" advised Ned. "Keep on pouring lead into them.
We'll soon be away from here!"

"Don't fire any more!" called Mr. Durban. "The gun-flashes tell them
where to shoot. I'll use the electric rifle. It's better."

They followed his advice, and put aside their weapons. By means of
the electric flash, which he projected into the midst of the
savages, without the glare coming on the airship, Mr. Durban was
able to tell where to aim. Once he had a mass of red pygmies
located, he could keep on shooting charge after charge into their
midst.

"Use it full power!" called Tom, as he opened the gas machine to its
widest capacity, so the bag would quickly fill, and the craft be
sent forward, for it was so dark, and the ground near the huts so
uneven, that the Black Hawk could not rise as an aeroplane.

The elephant hunter turned on full strength in the electric gun and
the wireless bullets were sent into the midst of the attackers. The
result was surprising. They were so closely packed together that
when one was hit the electrical shock was sent through his nearly
naked body into the naked bodies of his tribesmen who pressed on
every side of him. In consequence whole rows of the savages went
down at a time, disabled from fighting any more.

Meanwhile Tom was working frantically to hasten the rising of the
airship. His neck pained him very much where the arrow had struck
him, but he dared not stop now to dress the wound. He could feel the
blood running down his side, but he shut his teeth grimly and said
nothing.

The two missionaries, scarcely able to believe that they were to be
saved, had been shown into an inner cabin by Tomba, who had become
somewhat used to the airship by this time, and who could find his
way about well in the dark, for no lights had yet been turned on.

Hundreds of pygmies had been disabled, yet still others came to take
their places. The gas bag was again punctured in several places, but
the rents were small, and Tom knew that he could make the gas faster
than it could escape, unless the bag was ripped open.

"They're climbing up the sides!" suddenly called Ned Newton, for he
saw several of the little men clambering up. "What shall we do?"

"Pound their fingers!" called Mr. Anderson. "Get clubs and whack
them!" It was good advice. Ned remembered on one occasion when he
and Tom were looking at Andy Foger's airship, how this method had
been proposed when the bank clerk hung on the back fence. As he
grabbed up a stick, and proceeded to pound the hands and bare arms
of the savages who were clinging to the railing, Ned found himself
wondering what had become of the bully. He was to see Andy sooner
than he expected.

Suddenly in the midst of the fighting, which was now a hand-to-hand
conflict, there was a tremor throughout the length of the airship.

"She's going up!" yelled Ned.

"Bless my check-book!" cried Mr. Damon, "if we don't look out some
of these red imps will go up with us, too!"

As he spoke he whacked vigorously at the hands of several of the
pygmies, who dropped off with howls of anguish.

The craft quickly shot upward. There were yells of terror from a few
of the red savages who remained clinging to different parts of the
Black Hawk and then, fearing they might be taken to the clouds,
they, too, dropped off. The rescuers and rescued mounted higher and
higher, and, when they were far enough up so that there was no
danger from the spears or arrows, Tom switched on the lights, and
turned the electric current into the search-lantern, the rays of
which beamed down on the mass of yelling and baffled savages below.

"A few shots for them to remember us by!" cried Mr. Durban, as he
sent more of the paralyzing electric currents into the red imps.
Their yell of rage had now turned to shouts of terror, for the
gleaming beam of light frightened them more than did the airship, or
the bullets of the white men. The red pygmies fled to their huts.

"I guess we gave them a lesson," remarked Tom, as he started the
propellers and sent the ship on through the night.

"Why, Tom! You're hurt!" cried Ned, who came into the pilot house at
that moment, and saw blood on his chum.

"Only a scratch," the young inventor declared.

"It's more than that," said Mr. Durban who looked at it a little
later. "It must be bound up, Tom."

And, while Ned steered the ship back to the jungle clearing whence
they had come to make the night attack, Tom's wound was dressed.

Meanwhile the two missionaries had been well taken care of. They
were given other garments, even some dresses being provided for Mrs.
Illingway, for when the voyage was begun Tom had considered the
possibility of having a woman on board, and had bought some ladies'
garments. Then, having cast down to earth the ill-smelling skins
which formed their clothes while captives, Mr. and Mrs. Illingway,
decently dressed, thanked Tom and the others over and over again.

"We had almost given up hope," said the lady, "when we saw them
drive you back after the first attack. Oh, it is wonderful to think
how you saved us, and in an airship!" and she and her husband began
their thanks over again.

A good meal was prepared by Mr. Damon, for the rescuers and rescued
ones were hungry, and since they had been held prisoners the two
missionaries had not been given very good food.

"Oh, it hardly seems possible that we are eating with white men
again," said Mr. Illingway, as he took a second cup of coffee,
"hardly possible!"

"And to see electric lights, instead of a camp-fire," added his
wife. "What a wonderful airship you have, Tom Swift."

"Yes, it's pretty good," he admitted. "It came in useful to-night,
all right."

They were now far enough from the savages, and the pygmies' fires,
which had been set aglow anew when the attack began, could no longer
be observed.

"We'll land at the place where we camped before," said Tom, who had
again assumed charge of the ship, "and in the morning we'll start
for civilization."

"No can get two other white men?" suddenly asked Tomba, who had been
sitting, gazing at his recovered master and mistress. "Fly-ship go
back, an' leave two white mans here?" the black asked.

"What in the world does he mean?" demanded Tom. "Of course we're not
going to leave any of our party behind!"

"Let me question him," suggested Mr. Illingway, and he began to talk
to the African in his own tongue. A rapid conversation followed, and
a look of amazement spread over the faces of the two missionaries,
as they listened.

"What is it?" asked Mr. Durban. "What does Tomba say?"

"Why the pygmies have two other white men in captivity," said Mr.
Illingway. "They were brought in yesterday, after you were driven
away. Two white men, or, rather a white man and a youth, according
to Tomba. They are held in one of the huts near where we were, but
tied so they couldn't escape in the confusion."

"How does Tomba know this?" asked Mr. Damon.

"He says," translated Mr. Illingway, after more questioning of the
black, "that he heard the red pygmies boasting of it after we had
escaped. Tomba says he heard them say that, though we were gone, and
could not be killed, or sacrificed, the other two captives would
meet that horrible fate."

"Two other white captives in the hands of the red imps!" murmured
Tom. "We must rescue them!"

"You're not going to turn back now, are you?" asked Mr. Durban.

"No, but I will as soon as I look the ship over. We'll come back
to-morrow. And we'll have to make a day attack or it will be too late
to save them. Two other white captives! I wonder who they can be."

There was a big surprise in store for Tom Swift.




CHAPTER XXV

THE ROGUE ELEPHANT--CONCLUSION


Early the next day the airship was again afloat. The night, what
little of darkness remained after the rescue, had been spent in the
clearing in the dense jungle. Some slight repairs had been made to
the craft, and it was once more in readiness to be used in battle
against the relentless savages.

"We can't wait for darkness," declared Tom. "In the first place
there isn't time, and again, we don't know in what part of the
village the other captives are. We'll have to hunt around."

"And that means going right down into the midst of the imps and
fighting them hand to hand," said Ned.

"That's what it means," assented Tom grimly, "but I guess the powder
bombs will help some."

Before starting they had prepared a number of improvised bombs,
filled with powder, which could be set off by percussion. It was the
plan to drop these down from the airship, into the midst of the
savages. When the bomb struck the ground, or even on the bodies of
the red dwarfs, it would explode. It was hoped that these would so
dismay the little men that they would desert the village, and leave
the way clear for a search to be made for the other captives.

On rushed the Black Hawk. There was to be no concealment this time,
and Tom did not care how much noise the motors made. Accordingly he
turned on full speed.

It was not long before the big plain was again sighted. Everything
was in readiness, and the bombs were at hand to be dropped
overboard. Tom counted on the natives gathering together in great
masses as soon as they sighted the airship, and this would give him
the opportunity wanted.

But something different transpired. No sooner was the craft above
the village, than from all the huts came pouring out the little red
men. But they did not gather together--at least just then. They ran
about excitedly, and it could be seen that they were bringing from
the huts the rude household utensils in which they did their
primitive cooking. The women had their babies, and some, not so
encumbered, carried rolls of grass matting. The men had all their
weapons.

"Bless my wagon wheel!" cried Mr. Damon. "What's going on?"

"It looks like moving day," suggested Ned Newton.

"That's just what it is!" declared Mr. Durban. "They are going to
migrate. Evidently they have had enough of us, and they're going to
get out of the neighborhood before we get a chance to do any more
damage. They're moving, but where are the white captives?"

He was answered a moment later, for a crowd of the dwarfs rushing to
a certain hut, came out leading two persons by means of bark ropes
tied about their necks. It was too far off to enable Tom or the
others to recognize them, but they could tell by the clothing that
they were white captives.

"We've got to save them!" exclaimed the young inventor.

"How?" asked Mr. Damon. And, indeed, it did seem a puzzle for, even
as Tom looked, the whole tribe of red imps took up the march into
the jungle, dragging the white persons with them. The captives
looked up, saw the airship, and made frantic motions for help. It
was too far off, yet, to hear their voices. But the distance was
lessening every moment, for Tom had speeded the motor to the highest
pitch.

"What are you going to do?" demanded Ned.

"I'll show you," answered his chum. "Take some of those bombs, and
be ready to drop them overboard when I give the word."

"But we may kill those white people," objected Ned.

"Not the way I'm going to work it. You drop them when I give the
word."

Tom steered the airship toward the head of the throng of blacks. The
captives were in the rear, and the van of the strange procession was
near the edge of the jungle now. Once the red dwarfs got into the
tangle of underbrush they could never be found, and their captives
would die a miserable death.

"We've got to stop them," murmured Tom. "Are you ready, Ned?"

"Ready!"

"Then drop the bombs!"

Ned dropped them. A sharp explosion was heard, and the head of the
procession was blown apart and thrown into confusion. The throng
halted.

"Drop more!" cried Tom, sending the ship about in a circle, and
hovering it over the middle of the press of savages.

More of the deadly bombs exploded. The pygmies were running about
wildly. Tom, who was closely watching the rear of the cavalcade,
suddenly called out:

"Now's our chance! They've let their captives go, and are running
into the jungle. We must swoop down, and get the prisoners!"

It was no sooner said than the nose of the Black Hawk was pointed
downward. Onward it flew, the two captives wildly waving their hands
to the rescuers. There was no more danger from the red savages. They
had been thrown into panic and confusion, and were rapidly
disappearing into the forest. The terrible weapons of the whites had
been too much for them.

"Quick! Get on board!" called Tom, as he brought the machinery to a
stop. The airship now rested on the ground, close to the former
captives. "Get in here!" shouted the young inventor. "They may
change their minds and come back."

The two white persons ran toward the Black Hawk. Then one of them--the
smaller--halted and cried out:

"Why, it's Tom Swift!"

Tom turned and glanced at the speaker. A look of astonishment spread
over his face.

"Andy Foger--here!" gasped Tom. "How in the world--?"

"I dink besser as ve git on der board, und dalk aftervard!"
exclaimed Andy's companion, who spoke with a strong German accent.
"I like not dose red little mans."

In another minute the two rescued ones were safe on Tom Swift's
airship, and it had arisen high enough to be out of all danger.

"How in the world did you ever get here?" asked Tom of the lad who
had so often been his enemy.

"I'll tell you soon," spoke Andy, "but first, Tom, I want to ask
your forgiveness for all I've done to you, and to thank you, from
the bottom of my heart, for saving us. I thought we were going to be
killed by those dwarfs; didn't you, Herr Landbacher?"

"Sure I did. But ve are all right now. Dis machine is efen besser as
mine vot vos lost. Is dere anyt'ing to eats, on board, if you vill
excuse me for being so bolt as to ask?"

"Plenty to eat," said Tom, laughing, "and while you eat you can tell
us your story. And as for you, Andy, I hope we'll be friends from
now on," and Tom held out his hand.

There was not much to tell that the reader has not already guessed.
Andy and the German, as has been explained, went abroad to give
airship flights. They were in the lower part of Egypt, and a sudden
gale drove them into Africa.

For a long time they sailed on, and then their fuel gave out, and
they had to descend into the jungle. They managed to fall in with
some friendly blacks, who treated them well. The airship was useless
without gasolene, and it was abandoned.

Andy and the German inventor were planning to walk to some white
settlement, when the tribe they were with was attacked by the red
dwarfs and vanquished. Andy and his friend were taken prisoners, and
carried to the very village where the missionaries were, just before
the latter's rescue.

Then came the fight, and the saving of Andy and the German, almost
at the last minute.

"Well, you certainly had nearly as many adventures as we did," said
Tom. "But I guess they're over now."

But they were not. For several days the airship sailed on over the
jungles without making a descent. Mr. and Mrs. Illingway wished to
be landed at a white settlement where they had other missionary
friends. Tom would go with them. This was done, and Tom and the
others spent some time in this place, receiving so many kinds of
thanks that they had to protest.

Andy and Herr Landbacher asked to be taken back to the coast, where
they could get a steamer to America. Andy was a very different lad
now, and not the bully of old.

"Well, hadn't we better be thinking of getting back home?" asked Tom
one day.

"Not until we get some more ivory," declared Mr. Durban. "I think
we'll have to have another elephant hunt."

They did, about a week later, and got some magnificent tusks. Tom's
electric rifle did great work, to the wonder of Andy and Mr.
Landbacher, who had never before seen such a curious weapon. They
also did some night hunting.

"But we haven't got that pair of extra large tusks that I want,"
said the old hunter, as he looked at the store of ivory accumulated
after the last hunt. "I want those, and then I'll be satisfied.
There is one section of the country that we have not touched as yet,
and I'd like to visit that."

"Then let's go," proposed Tom, so, good-bys having been said to the
missionaries, who sent greetings to their friends in America, and to
the church people who had arranged for their rescue, the airship was
once more sent to the deepest part of a certain jungle, where Mr.
Durban hoped to get what he wanted.

They had another big hunt, but none of the elephants had any
remarkable tusks, and the hunter was about to give up in despair,
and call the expedition over, when one afternoon, as they were
sailing along high enough to merely clear the tops of the trees, Tom
heard a great crashing down below.

"There's something there," he called to Mr. Durban. "Perhaps a small
herd of elephants. Shall we go down?"

Before Mr. Durban could answer there came into view, in a small
clearing, an elephant of such size, and with such an enormous pair
of tusks, that the young inventor and the old hunter could not
repress cries of astonishment.

"There's your beast!" said Tom. "I'll go down and you can pot him,"
and, as he spoke, Tom stopped the propellers, so that the ship hung
motionless in the air above where the gigantic brute was.

Suddenly, as though possessed by a fit of rage, the elephant rushed
at a good-sized tree and began butting it with his head. Then,
winding his trunk around it he pulled it up by the roots, and began
trampling on it out of a paroxysm of anger.

"A rogue elephant!" exclaimed Mr. Durban. "Don't go down if you
value your life, or the safety of the airship. If we attacked that
brute on the ground, we would be the hunted instead of the hunters.
That's a rogue elephant of the worst kind, and he's at the height of
his rage."

This was indeed so, for the beast was tearing about the clearing
like mad, breaking off trees, and uprooting them in sheer
wantonness. Tom knew what a "rogue" elephant was. It is a beast that
goes away from the herd, and lives solitary and alone, attacking
every living thing that comes in his way. It is a species of
madness, a disease which attacks elephants and sometimes passes
away. More often the afflicted creature gives battle to everything
and every animal he meets until he is killed or carried off by his
malady. It was such an elephant that Tom now saw, and he realized
what the hunter said about attacking one, as he saw the brute's mad
rushes.

"Well, if it's dangerous to attack him on the ground, we'll kill him
from up above," said the young inventor. "Here is the electric
rifle, Mr. Durban. I'll let you have the honor of getting those
tusks. My! But they're whoppers! Better use almost a full charge.
Don't take any chances on merely wounding him, and having him rush
off to the jungle."

"I won't," said the old hunter, and he adjusted the electric rifle
which Tom handed him.

As the great beast was tearing around, trumpeting shrilly and
breaking off trees Mr. Durban fired. The creature sank down,
instantly killed, and was out of his misery, for often it is great
pain which makes an otherwise peaceable elephant become a "rogue."

"He's done for," said Ned. "I guess you have the tusks you want now,
Mr. Durban."

"I think so," agreed the hunter, and when the airship was sent down,
and the ivory cut out, it was found that the tusks were even larger
than they had supposed. "It is a prize worth having," said Mr.
Durban. "I'm sure my customer will think so, too. Now I'm ready to
head for the coast."

Tom Swift went to the engine room, while the last big tusks were
being stored away with the other ivory. Several parts of the motor
needed oiling, and Ned was assisting in this work.

"Going to start soon?" asked Mr. Durban, appearing in the doorway.

"Yes; why?" inquired Tom, who noted an anxious note in the voice of
the hunter.

"Well, I don't like staying longer in this jungle than I can help.
It's not healthy in the first place, and then it's a wild and
desolate place, where all sorts of wild beasts are lurking, and
where wandering hands of natives may appear at any time."

"You don't mean that the red pygmies will come back; do you?" asked
Ned.

"There's no telling," replied Mr. Durban with a shrug of his
shoulders. "Only, as long as we've got what we're after, I'd start
off as soon as possible."

"Yes, don't run any chances with those little red men," begged Andy
Foger, who had given himself up for lost when he and his companion
fell into their hands.

"Radder vould I be mit cannibals dan dose little imps!" spoke the
German fervently.

"We'll start at once," declared Tom. "Are you all aboard, and is
everything loaded into the airship?"

"Everything, I guess." answered Mr. Anderson.

Tom looked to the motor, saw that it was in working order, and
shoved over the lever of the gas machine to begin the generating of
the lifting vapor. To his surprise there was no corresponding hiss
that told of the gas rushing into the bag.

"That's odd," he remarked. "Ned, see if anything is wrong with that
machine. I'll pull the lever again."

The bank clerk stood beside the apparatus, while Tom worked the
handle, but whatever was the matter with it was too intricate or
complicated for Ned to solve.

"I can't see what ails it," he called to his chum. "You better have
a peep."

"All right, I'll look if you work the handle."

The passengers on the airship, which now rested in a little clearing
in the dense jungle, gathered at the engine room door, looking at
Tom and Ned as they worked over the machine.

"Bless my pulley wheel!" exclaimed Mr. Damon "I hope nothing has
gone wrong."

"Well something has!" declared the young inventor in a muffled
voice, for he was down on his hands and knees peering under the gas
apparatus. "One of the compression cylinders has cracked," he added
dubiously. "It must have snapped when we landed this last time. I
came down too heavily."

"What does that mean?" asked Mr. Durban, who did not know much about
machinery.

"It means that I've got to put a new cylinder in," went on Tom.
"It's quite a job, too, but we can't make gas without it!"

"Well, can't you do it just as well up in the air as down here?"
asked Mr. Durban. "Make an ascension, Tom, and do the repairs up
above, where we've got good air, and where--"

He paused suddenly, and seemed to be listening.

"What is it?" asked the young inventor quickly. There was no need to
answer, for, from the jungle without, came the dull booming of the
war drums of some natives.

"That's what I was afraid of!" cried the old elephant hunter,
catching up his gun. "Some black scout has seen us and is summoning
his tribesmen. Hurry, Tom, send up the ship, and we'll take care of
the savages."

"But I CAN'T send her up!" cried Tom.

"You can't? Why not?"

"Because the gas machine won't work until I put in a new cylinder,
and that will take at least a half a day."

"Go up as an aeroplane then!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my monkey
wrench, Tom, you've often done it before."

For answer Tom waved his hand toward the thick jungle all about
them.

"We haven't room to get a running start of ten feet." he said, "and
without a start the airship can never rise as a mere aeroplane. The
only way we can get up from the jungle is like a balloon, and
without the gas--"

He paused significantly. The sound of the war drums became louder,
and to it was added a weird singing chant.

"The natives!" cried Mr. Anderson. "They're coming right this way!
We must fight them off if they attack us!"

"Where's the electric rifle?" asked Ned. "Get that out, Tom!"

"Wait!" suggested Mr. Durban. "This is serious! It looks as if they
were going to attack us, and they have us at a disadvantage. Our
only safety is in flight, but as Tom says we can't go up until the
gas machine is fixed, he will have to attend to that part of it
while we keep off the black men. Tom, we can't spare you to fight
this time! You repair the ship as soon as you can, and we'll guard
her from the natives. And you've got to work lively!"

"I will!" cried the young inventor. "It's luck we have a spare
cylinder!"

Suddenly there was a louder shout in the jungle and it was followed
by a riot of sound. War drums were beaten, tom-toms clashed and the
natives howled.

"Here they are!" cried Mr. Anderson.

"Bless my suspenders!" shouted Mr. Damon. "Where is my gun?"

"Here, you take mine, and I'll use the electric rifle," answered the
elephant hunter. As he spoke there was a hissing sound in the air
and a flight of spears passed over the airship.

The defenders slipped outside, while Tom, with Ned to help him,
worked feverishly to repair the break. They were in a serious
strait, for with the airship practically helpless they were at the
mercy of the natives. And as Tom glanced momentarily from the
window, he saw scores of black, half-naked forms slipping in and out
among the trees and trailing vines.

Soon the rifles of his friends began to crack, and the yells of the
natives were changed to howls of anguish. The electric weapon,
though it made no noise, did great execution.

"I only hope they don't puncture the gas bag," murmured Tom, as he
began taking the generating machine apart so as to get out the
cracked cylinder.

"If they do, it's all up with us," murmured Ned.

After their first rush, finding that the white men were on the
alert, the blacks withdrew some distance, where their spears and
arrows were not so effective. Our friends, including Andy Foger, and
the German, kept up a hot fire whenever a skulking black form could
be seen.

But, though the danger from the spears and arrows was less, a new
peril presented itself. This was from the blow guns. The curious
weapons shot small arrows, tipped with tufts of a cottony substance
in place of feathers, and could be sent for a long distance. The
barbs were not strong enough to pierce the tough fabric of the gas
bag, as a spear or arrow would have done, but there was more danger
from them to our friends who were on deck.

"Those barbs may be poisoned," said Mr. Durban, "and in case any one
is wounded, the wound, though it be but a scratch, must be treated
with antiseptics. I have some."

This course was followed, the elephant hunter being wounded twice,
and Andy Foger and Mr. Damon once each. There was not a native to be
seen now, for they were hiding behind the trees of the jungle, but
every now and then a blowgun barb would whizz out of the forest.

Finally Mr. Durban suggested that they erect improvised shelters,
behind which they could stand with their rifle, and breastworks were
made out of packing boxes. Then our friends were comparatively safe.
But they had to be on the alert, and it was nervous work, for they
could not tell what minute the blacks would rush from the jungle,
and, in spite of the fire from the electric rifle and other guns,
overwhelm the ship.

It was very trying to Tom and Ned, for they had to work hard and
rapidly in the close engine room. The sweat dripped down off them,
but they kept at it. It was three hours before the broken cylinder
was removed, and it was no light task to put in the other, for the
valves had to be made very tight to prevent leakage.

The two lads stopped to get something to eat, while the guards kept
sharp watch against a surprise. At intervals came a flight of barbs,
and occasionally a black form could be seen, when it was instantly
fired at. Several times the barbaric noise of the tom-toms and war
drums, with which the shouts of the natives mingled, broke out
deafeningly.

"Think you can repair it by night?" asked Mr. Durban anxiously of
Tom.

"I hope so," was the response.

"Because if we have to stay here after dark--well, I don't want to
do it if I can help it," finished the hunter.

Neither did the young inventor, and he redoubled his efforts to make
the repairs. It was getting dark when the last belt was in place,
and it was high time, too, for the natives were getting bolder,
creeping up through the forest to within shooting distance with
their arrows and spears.

"There!" cried Tom at length. "Now we'll see if she works!" Once
more he pulled the starting lever, and this time there was the
welcome hiss of the gas.

"Hurrah!" cried Ned.

The young inventor turned the machine on at full power. In a few
minutes the Black Hawk trembled through her length.

"She's going up! Bless my balloon basket! She's going up!" cried Mr.
Damon.

The natives must have suspected that something unusual was going on,
for they made a sudden rush, yelling and beating their drums. Mr.
Durban and the others hurried out on deck and fired at them, but
there was little more need. With a bound the airship left the earth,
being rapidly carried up by the gas. The blacks sent a final shower
of spears after her, but only one was effective, slightly wounding
the German. Then Tom started the motor, the propellers whizzed, and
the Black Hawk was once more under way, just as night settled over
the jungle, and upon the horde of black and howling savages that
rushed around, maddened over the escape of their intended victims.

No further accidents marred the trip to the coast, which was reached
in due time, and very glad our friends were to be away from the
jungle and the land of the red pygmies.

A division was made of the ivory, and Tom's share was large enough
to provide him with a substantial amount. Ned and Mr. Damon were
also given a goodly sum from the sale of the tusks. The big ones,
from the "rogue," were shipped to the man who had commissioned Mr.
Durban to secure them for him.

"Well, now for home," said Tom, when the airship had been taken
apart for shipment. "I guess you'll be glad to get back to the
United States, won't you, friends?"

"That's what," agreed Andy Foger. "I think I'm done with airships.
Ugh! When I think of those red dwarfs I can't sleep nights!"

"Yah, dot iss so!" agreed the German.

"Well, I'm going to settle down for a time," declared Tom. "I've had
enough adventures for a while, but those in elephant land--"

"They certainly put it all over the things that happen to some
people!" interrupted Ned with a laugh.

"Bless my fish-line, that's so!" agreed Mr. Damon.

But Tom Swift was not done with adventures, and what farther
happened to him may be learned by reading the next volume of this
series, which will be entitled, "Tom Swift in the City of Gold; or,
Marvelous Adventures Underground."

They all made a safe and pleasant voyage home, and as news of the
rescue of the missionaries had been cabled to America, Tom and his
friends were met, as they left the steamer, by a crowd of newspaper
reporters, who got a good story of the battle with the red pygmies,
though Tom was inclined to make light of his part in the affair.

"Now for Shopton, home, Dad, Eradicate Sampson and his mule!"
exclaimed Tom, as they boarded a train in New York.

"And somebody else, too, I guess; eh?" asked Ned of his chum,
with a laugh.

"That's none of your affair!" declared Tom, as he blushed,
and then he, too, joined in the merriment.

And now, for a time, we will say good-by to the young inventor
and his friends.


End




Tom Swift In The City Of Gold

or

Marvelous Adventures Underground

by Victor Appleton

AUTHOR OF "TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR-CYCLE," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS
AIRSHIP," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS WIRELESS MESSAGE," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS
ELECTRIC RIFLE," ETC.




ILLUSTRATED




CONTENTS

CHAPTER

     I   WONDERFUL NEWS
    II   AN UNSUSPECTED LISTENER
   III   ANDY IS WHITEWASHED
    IV   A PERILOUS FLIGHT
     V   NEWS FROM AFRICA
    VI   "BEWARE THE HEAD-HUNTERS!"
   VII   TOM MAKES A PROMISE
  VIII   ERADICATE WILL GO
    IX   "THAT LOOKED LIKE ANDY!"
     X   MYSTERIOUS PASSENGERS
    XI   THE MIDNIGHT ALARM
   XII   INTO THE UNKNOWN
  XIII   FOLLOWED
   XIV   A WEARY SEARCH
    XV   THE GOLDEN IMAGE
   XVI   THE MAP ON THE GOLD
  XVII   THE RUINED TEMPLE
 XVIII   FINDING THE TUNNEL
   XIX   THE UNDERGROUND RIVER
    XX   THE CITY OF GOLD
   XXI   THE BIG IMAGE
  XXII   TRAPPED
 XXIII   "IS IT A RESCUE?"
  XXIV   THE FIGHT
   XXV   THE ESCAPE--CONCLUSION




TOM SWIFT IN THE CITY OF GOLD




CHAPTER I

WONDERFUL NEWS


"Letter for you, Tom Swift."

"Ah, thanks, Mr. Wilson. This is the first mail I've had this week.
You've been neglecting me," and the young inventor took the missive
which the Shopton postman handed to him over the gate, against which
Tom was leaning one fine, warm Spring day.

"Well, I get around as often as I can, Tom. You're not home a great
deal, you know. When you're not off in your sky racer seeing how
much you can beat the birds, you're either hunting elephants in
Africa, or diving down under the ocean, or out in a diamond mine, or
some such out-of-the-way place as that. No wonder you don't get many
letters. But that one looks as if it had come quite a distance."

"So it does," agreed Tom, looking closely at the stamp and postmark.
"What do you make out of it, Mr. Wilson?" and then, just as many
other persons do when getting a strange letter, instead of opening
it to see from whom it has come, Tom tried to guess by looking at
the handwriting, and trying to decipher the faint postmark. "What
does that say?" and the young inventor pointed to the black stamp.

"Hum, looks like Jube--no, that first letter's a 'K' I guess," and
Mr. Wilson turned it upside down, thinking that would help.

"I made it out a 'G'," said Tom.

"So it is. A 'G'--you're right. Gumbo--Twamba--that's what it is--Gumba
Twamba. I can make it out now all right."

"Well, where, for the love of my old geography, is Gumba Twamba?"
asked the lad with a laugh.

"You've got me, Tom. Must be in Sweden, or Holland, or some of those
foreign countries. I don't often handle letters from there, so I
can't say. Why don't you open your letter and find out who its
from?"

"That's what I ought to have done at first." Quickly Tom ripped open
the much worn and frayed envelope, through the cracks of which some
parts of the letter already could be seen, showing that it had
traveled many thousand miles before it got to the village of
Shopton, in New York State.

"Well, I've got to be traveling on," remarked the postman, as Tom
started to read the mysterious letter. "I'm late as it is. You can
tell me the news when I pass again, Tom."

But the young inventor did not reply. He was too much engaged in
reading the missive, for, no sooner had he perused the first few
lines than his eyes began to open wide in wonder, and his manner
plainly indicated his surprise. He read the letter once, and then
over again, and when he had finished it a second time, he made a
dash for the house.

"I say dad!" cried Tom. "This is great! Great news here! Where are
you, dad? Say, Mrs. Baggert," he called as he saw the motherly
housekeeper, "where's father? I've got great news for him? Where is
he?"

"Out in the shop, I think. I believe Mr. Damon is with him."

"And blessing everything as usual, from his hat to his shoe laces,
I'll wager," murmured Tom as he made his way to the shop where his
father, also an inventor like himself, spent much of his time.
"Well, well, I'm glad Mr. Damon is here, for he'll be interested in
this."

Tom fairly rushed into the building, much of the space of which, was
taken up by machinery, queer tools and odd devices, many of them
having to do with the manufacture of aeroplanes, for Tom had as many
of them as some people have of automobiles.

"I say, dad!" cried Tom, waving the letter above his head, "what do
you think of this? Listen to--"

"Easy there now, Tom! Easy, my boy, or you'll oblige me to do all my
work over again," and an aged man, beside whom a younger one was
standing, held up a hand of caution, while with the other hand he
was adjusting some delicate piece of machinery.

"What are you doing?" demanded the son.

"Bless my scarf pin!" exclaimed the other man--Mr. Wakefield
Damon--"Bless my rubbers, Tom Swift! What SHOULD your father be doing
but inventing something new, as he always is. I guess he's working on
his new gyroscope, though it is only a guess, for he hasn't said ten
words to me since I came out to talk to him. But that's like all
inventors, they--"

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Damon," spoke Mr. Swift with a smile, "I'm
sure--"

"Say, can't you listen to me for five minutes?" pleaded Tom. "I've
got some great news--simply great, and your gyroscope can wait, dad.
Listen to this letter," and he prepared to read it.

"Who's it from?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Mr. Jacob Illingway, the African missionary whom you and I rescued,
together with his wife, from the red pygmies!" cried Tom. "Think of
that! Of all persons to get a letter from, and SUCH a letter! SUCH
news in it. Why, it's simply great! You remember Mr. and Mrs.
Illingway; don't you Mr. Damon? How we went to Africa after
elephant's tusks, with Mr. Durban the hunter, and how we got the
missionaries away from those little savages in my airship--don't you
remember?"

"I should say I did!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Bless my watch
chain--but they were regular imps--the red Pygmies I mean, not the
missionaries. But what is Mr. Illingway writing to you about now,
Tom? I know he sent you several letters since we came back from
Africa. What's the latest news?"

"I'll tell you," replied the young inventor, sitting down on a
packing box. "It would take too long to read the letter so I'll sum
it up, and you can go over it later."

"To be brief, Mr. Illingway tells of a wonderful golden image that
is worshiped by a tribe of Africans in a settlement not far from
Gumba Twamba, where he is stationed. It's an image of solid gold--"

"Solid gold!" interrupted Mr. Swift.

"Yes, dad, and about three feet high," went on Tom, referring to the
letter to make sure. "It's heavy, too, no hollows in it, and these
Africans regard it as a god. But that's not the strangest part of
it. Mr. Illingway goes on to say that there is no gold in that part
of Africa, and for a time he was at a loss how to account for the
golden image. He made some inquiries and learned that it was once
the property of a white traveler who made his home with the tribe
that now worships the image of gold. This traveler, whose name Mr.
Illingway could not find out, was much liked by the Africans. He
taught them many things, doctored them when they were sick, and they
finally adopted him into the tribe."

"It seems that he tried to make them better, and wanted them to
become Christians, but they clung to their own beliefs until he
died. Then, probably thinking to do his memory honor, they took the
golden image, which was among his possessions, and set it up as a
god."

"Bless my hymn book!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "What did they do that
for?"

"This white man thought a great deal of the image," said Tom, again
referring to the letter, "and the Africans very likely imagined
that, as he was so good to them, some of his virtues had passed into
the gold. Then, too, they may have thought it was part of his
religion, and as he had so often wanted them to adopt his beliefs,
they reasoned out that they could now do so, by worshiping the
golden god."

"Anyhow, that's what they did, and the image is there to-day, in
that far-off African village. But I haven't got to the real news
yet. The image of solid gold is only a part of it."

"Before this traveler died he told some of the more intelligent
natives that the image had come from a far-off underground city--a
regular city of gold--nearly everything in it that was capable of
being made of metal, being constructed of the precious yellow gold.
The golden image was only one of a lot more like it, some smaller
and some larger--"

"Not larger, Tom, not larger, surely!" interrupted Mr. Swift. "Why,
my boy, think of it! An image of solid gold, bigger even than this
one Mr. Illingway writes of, which he says is three feet high. Why,
if there are any larger they must be nearly life size, and think of
a solid gold statue as large as a man--it would weigh--well, I'm
afraid, to say how much, and be worth--why, Tom, it's impossible. It
would be worth millions--all the wealth of a world must be in the
underground city. It's impossible Tom, my boy!"

"Well, that may be," agreed Tom. "I'm not saying it's true. Mr.
Illingway is telling only what he heard."

"Go on! Tell some more," begged Mr. Damon. "Bless my shirt studs,
this is getting exciting!"

"He says that the traveler told of this underground city of gold,"
went on Tom, "though he had never been there himself. He had met a
native who had located it, and who had brought out some of the gold,
including several of the images, and one he gave to the white man in
return for some favor. The white man took it to Africa with him."

"But where is this underground city, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift. "Doesn't
Mr. Illingway give you any idea of its location."

"He says it is somewhere in Mexico," explained the lad. "The
Africans haven't a very good idea of geography, but some of the
tribesmen whom the white traveler taught, could draw rude maps, and
Mr. Illingway had a native sketch one for him, showing as nearly as
possible where the city of gold is located."

"Tom Swift, have you got that map?" suddenly cried Mr. Damon. "Bless
my pocketbook, but--"

"I have it!" said Tom quietly, taking from the envelope a piece of
paper covered with rough marks. "It isn't very good, but--"

"Bless my very existence!" cried the excitable man. "But you're not
going to let such a chance as this slip past; are you Tom? Are you
going to hunt for that buried city of gold?"

"I certainly am," answered the young inventor quietly.

"Tom! You're not going off on another wild expedition?" asked Mr.
Swift anxiously.

"I'm afraid I'll have to," answered his son with a smile.

"Go? Of course he'll go!" burst out Mr. Damon. "And I'm going with
him; can't I, Tom?"

"Surely. The reason Mr. Illingway sent me the letter was to tell me
about the city of gold. He thought, after my travels in Africa, that
to find a buried city in Mexico would be no trouble at all, I
suppose. Anyhow he suggests that I make the attempt, and--"

"Oh, but, Tom, just when I am perfecting my gyroscope!" exclaimed
Mr. Swift. "I need your help."

"I'll help you when I come back, dad. I want to get some of this
gold."

"But we are rich enough, Tom."

"It isn't so much the money, dad. Listen. There is another part to
the letter. Mr. Illingway says that in that underground city,
according to the rumor among the African natives, there is not only
gold in plenty, and a number of small gold statues, but one immense
big one--of solid gold, as large as three men, and there is some
queer mystery about it, so that white traveler said. A mystery he
wanted to solve but could not."

"So, dad, I'm going to search for that underground city, not only
for the mere gold, but to see if I can solve the mystery of the big
gold statue. And if I could bring it away," cried Tom in great
excitement as he waved the missionary's letter above his head, "it
would be one of the wonders of the world--dad, for, not only is it
very valuable, but it is most beautifully carved."

"Well, I might as well give up my gyroscope work until you come back
from the city of gold, Tom, I can see that," said Mr. Swift, with a
faint smile. "And if you go, I hope you come back. I don't want that
mysterious image to be the undoing of you."

"Oh, I'll come back all right!" cried Tom confidently. "Ho! for the
city of gold and the images thereof! I'm going to get ready to
start!"

"And so am I!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my shoe strings, Tom, but I'm
with you! I certainly am!" and the little man excitedly shook hands
with Tom Swift, while the aged inventor looked on and nodded his
head doubtfully. But Tom was full of hope.




CHAPTER II

AN UNSUSPECTED LISTENER


For a few moments after Tom Swift had announced his decision to
start for the city of gold, and Mr. Damon had said he would
accompany the young inventor, there was a silence in the workshop.
Then Mr. Swift laid aside the delicate mechanism of the new model
gyroscope on which he had been working, came over to his son, and
said:

"Well, Tom, if you're going, that means you're going--I know enough
to predict that. I rather wish you weren't, for I'm afraid no good
will come of this."

"Now, dad, don't be talking that way!" cried Tom gaily. "Pack up and
come along with us." Lovingly he placed his arm around the bent
shoulders of his father.

"No, Tom, I'm too old. Home is the place for me."

"Bless my arithmetic tables!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "you're not so
much older than I am, and I'm going with Tom. Come on, Mr. Swift."

"No, I can't put up with dangers, hardship and excitement as I used
to. I'd better stay home. Besides, I want to perfect my new
gyroscope. I'll work on that while you and Tom are searching for the
city of gold. But, Tom, if you're going you'd better have something
more definite to look for than an unknown city, located on a map
drawn by some African bushman."

"I intend to, dad. I guess when Mr. Illingway wrote his letter he
didn't really think I'd take him up, and make the search. I'm going
to write and ask him if he can't get me a better map, and also learn
more about the location of the city. Mexico isn't such a very large
place, but it would be if you had to hunt all over it for a buried
city, and this map isn't a lot of help," and Tom who had shown it to
his father and Mr. Damon looked at it closely.

"If we're going, we want all the information we can get," declared
the odd man. "Bless my gizzard, Tom, but this may mean a lot to us!"

"I think it will," agreed the young inventor. "I'm going to write to
Mr. Illingway at once, and ask for all the information he can get."

"And I'll help you with suggestions," spoke Mr. Damon. "Come on in
the house, Tom. Bless my ink bottle, but we're going to have some
adventures again!"

"It seems to me that is about all Tom does--have adventures--that
and invent flying machines," said Mr. Swift with a smile, as his son
and their visitor left the shop. Then he once more bent over his
gyroscope model, while Tom and Mr. Damon hurried in to write the
letter to the African missionary.

And while this is being done I am going to ask your patience for a
little while--my old readers, I mean--while I tell my new friends,
who have never yet met Tom Swift, something about him.

Mr. Swift spoke truly when he said his son seemed to do nothing but
seek adventures and invent flying machines. Of the latter the lad
had a goodly number, some of which involved new and startling ideas.
For Tom was a lad who "did things."

In the first volume of this series, entitled "Tom Swift and His
Motor Cycle," I told you how he became acquainted with Mr. Damon.
That eccentric individual was riding a motor cycle, when it started
to climb a tree. Mr. Damon was thrown off in front of Tom's house,
somewhat hurt, and the young inventor took him in. Tom and his
father lived in the village of Shopton, New York, and Mr. Swift was
an inventor of note. His son followed in his footsteps. Mrs. Swift
had been dead some years, and they had a good housekeeper, Mrs.
Baggert.

Another "member" of the family was Eradicate Sampson, a colored man
of all work, who said he was named "Eradicate" because he
"eradicated" the dirt. He used to do odd jobs of whitewashing before
he was regularly employed by Mr. Swift as a sort of gardener and
watchman.

In the first book I told how Tom bought the motor cycle from Mr.
Damon, fixed it up, and had many adventures on it, not the least of
which was saving some valuable patent models of his father's which
some thieves had taken.

Then Tom Swift got a motor boat, as related in the second volume of
the series, and he had many exciting trips in that craft. Following
that he made his first airship with the help of a veteran balloonist
and then, not satisfied with adventures in the air, he and his
father perfected a wonderful submarine boat in which they went under
the ocean for sunken treasure.

The automobile industry was fast forging to the front when Tom came
back from his trip under water, and naturally he turned his
attention to that. But he made an electric car instead of one that
was operated by gasolene, and it proved to be the speediest car on
the road.

The details of Tom Swift and his wireless message will be found in
the book of that title. It tells how he saved the castaways of
Earthquake Island, and among them was Mr. Nestor, the father of
Mary, a girl whom Tom thought--but there, I'm not going to be mean,
and tell on a good fellow. You can guess what I'm hinting at, I
think.

It was when Tom went to get Mary Nestor a diamond ring that he fell
in with Mr. Barcoe Jenks, who eventually took Tom off on a search
for the diamond makers, and he and Tom, with some friends,
discovered the secret of Phantom Mountain.

One would have thought that these adventures would have been enough
for Tom Swift, but, like Alexander, he sighed for new worlds to
conquer. How he went to the caves of ice in search of treasure, and
how his airship was wrecked is told in the eighth volume of the
series, and in the next is related the details of his swift sky-racer,
in which he and Mr. Damon made a wonderfully fast trip, and
brought a doctor to Mr. Swift in time to save the life of the aged
inventor.

It was when Tom invented a wonderful electric rifle, and went to
Africa with a Mr. Durban, a great hunter, to get elephants' tusks,
that he rescued Mr. and Mrs. Illingway, the missionaries, who were
held captive by red pygmies.

That was a startling trip, and full of surprises. Tom took with him
to the dark continent a new airship, the Black Hawk, and but for
this he and his friends never would have escaped from the savages
and the wild beasts.

As it was, they had a hazardous time getting the missionary and his
wife away from the jungle. It was this same missionary who, as told
in the first chapter of this book, sent Tom the letter about the
city of gold. Mr. Illingway and his wife wanted to stay in Africa in
an endeavor to christianize the natives, even after their terrible
experience. So Tom landed them at a white settlement. It was from
there that the letter came.

But the missionaries were not the only ones whom Tom saved from the
red pygmies. Andy Foger, a Shopton youth, was Tom's enemy, and he
had interfered with our hero's plans in his trips. He even had an
airship made, and followed Tom to Africa. There Andy Foger and his
companion, a German were captured by the savages. But though Tom
saved his life, Andy did not seem to give over annoying the young
inventor. Andy was born mean, and, as Eradicate Sampson used to say,
"dat meanness neber will done git whitewashed outer him--dat's a
fack!"

But if Andy Foger was mean to Tom, there was another Shopton lad who
was just the reverse. This was Ned Newton, who was Tom's particular
chum, Ned had gone with our hero on many trips, including the one to
Africa after elephants. Mr. Damon also accompanied Tom many times,
and occasionally Eradicate went along on the shorter voyages. But
Eradicate was getting old, like Mr. Swift, who, of late years, had
not traveled much with his son.

When I add that Tom still continued to invent things, that he was
always looking for new adventures, that he still cared very much for
Mary Nestor, and thought his father the best in the world, and liked
Mr. Damon and Ned Newton above all his other acquaintances, except
perhaps Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper, I think perhaps I have said
enough about him; and now I will get back to the story.

I might add, however, that Andy Foger, who had been away from
Shopton for some time, had now returned to the village, and had
lately been seen by Tom, riding around in a powerful auto. The sight
of Andy did not make the young inventor feel any happier.

"Well, Tom, I think that will do," remarked Mr. Damon when, after
about an hour's work, they had jointly written a letter to the
African missionary.

"We've asked him enough questions, anyhow," agreed the lad. "If he
answers all of them we'll know more about the city of gold, and
where it is, than we do now."

"Exactly," spoke the odd man. "Now to mail the letter, and wait for
an answer. It will take several weeks, for they don't have good mail
service to that part of Africa. I hope Mr. Illingway sends us a
better map."

"So do I," assented Tom. "But even with the one we have I'd take a
chance and look for the underground city."

"I'll mail the letter," went on Mr. Damon, who was as eager over the
prospective adventure as was Tom. "I'm going back home to Waterfield
I think. My wife says I stay here too much."

"Don't be in a hurry," urged Tom. "Can't you stay to supper? I'll
take you home to-night in the sky racer. I want to talk more about
the city of gold, and plan what we ought to take with us to Mexico."

"All right," agreed Mr. Damon. "I'll stay, but I suppose I
shouldn't. But let's mail the letter."

It was after supper, when, the letter having been posted, that Tom,
his father and Mr. Damon were discussing the city of gold.

"Will you go, even if Mr. Illingway can't send a better map?" asked
Mr. Damon.

"Sure," exclaimed Tom. "I want to get one of the golden images if I
have to hunt all over the Aztec country for it."

"Who's talking of golden images?" demanded a new voice, and Tom
looked up quickly, to see Ned Newton, his chum, entering the room.
Ned had come in unannounced, as he frequently did.

"Hello, old stock!" cried Tom affectionately. "Sir, there's great
news. It's you and me for the city of gold now!"

"Get out! What are you talking about?"

Then Tom had to go into details, and explain to Ned all about the
great quantity of gold that might be found in the underground city.

"You'll come along, won't you, Ned?" finished the young inventor.
"We can't get along without you. Mr. Damon is going, and Eradicate
too, I guess. We'll have a great time."

"Well, maybe I can fix it so I can go," agreed Ned, slowly, "I'd
like it, above all things. Where did you say that golden city was?"

"Somewhere about the central part of Mexico, near the city of--"

"Hark!" suddenly exclaimed Ned, holding up a hand to caution Tom to
silence.

"What is it?" asked the young inventor in a whisper.

"Some one is coming along the hall," replied Ned in a low voice.

They all listened intently. There was no doubt but that some one was
approaching along the corridor leading to the library where the
conference was being held.

"Oh, it's only Mrs. Baggert," remarked Tom a moment later, relief
showing in his voice. "I know her step."

There was a tap on the door, and the housekeeper pushed it open, for
it had been left ajar. She thrust her head in and remarked:

"I guess you've forgotten, Mr. Swift, that Andy Foger is waiting for
you in the next room. He has a letter for you."

"Andy Foger!" gasped Tom. "Here."

"That's so, I forgot all about him!" exclaimed Mr. Swift jumping up.
"It slipped my mind. I let him in a while ago, before we came in the
library, and he's probably been sitting in the parlor ever since. I
thought he wanted to see you, Tom, so I told him to wait. And I
forgot all about him. You'd better see what he wants."

"Andy Foger there--in the next room," murmured Tom. "He's been there
some time. I wonder how much he heard about the city of gold?"




CHAPTER III

ANDY IS WHITEWASHED


The parlor where Mr. Swift had asked Andy to wait, adjoined the
library, and there was a connecting door, over which heavy curtains
were draped. Tom quickly pulled them aside and stepped into the
parlor. The connecting door had been open slightly, and in a flash
the young inventor realized that it was perfectly possible for any
one in the next room to have heard most of the talk about the city
of gold.

A glance across the room showed Andy seated on the far side,
apparently engaged in reading a book.

"Did you want to see me?" asked Tom sharply. His father and the
others in the library listened intently. Tom wondered what in the
world Andy could want of him, since the two were never in good tame,
and Andy cherished a resentment even since our hero had rescued him
from the African jungle.

"No, I didn't come to see you," answered Andy quickly, laying aside
the book and rising to face Tom.

"Then what--"

"I came to see your father," interrupted the red-haired bully. "I
have a letter for him from my father; but I guess Mr. Swift
misunderstood me when he let me in."

"Did you tell him you wanted to see me?" asked Tom suspiciously,
thinking Andy had made a mistatement in order to have a longer time
to wait.

"No, I didn't, but I guess your father must have been thinking about
something else, for he told me to come in here and sit down. I've
been waiting ever since, and just now Mrs. Baggert passed and saw
me. She--"

"Yes, she said you were here," spoke Tom significantly. "Well, then
it's my father you want to see. I'll tell him."

Tom hurried back to the library.

"Dad," he said, "it's you that Andy wants to see. He has a letter
from Mr. Foger for you."

"For me? What in the world can it be about? He never wrote to me
before. I must have misunderstood Andy. But then it's no wonder for
my head is so full of my new gyroscope plans. There is a certain
spring I can't seem to get right--"

"Perhaps you'd better see what Andy wants," suggested Mr. Damon
gently. He looked at Tom. They were both thinking of the same thing.

"I will," replied Mr. Swift quickly, and he passed into the library.

"I wonder how much Andy heard?" asked Ned, in a low voice.

"Oh, I don't believe it could have been very much," answered Tom.

"No, I stopped you just in time," rejoined his chum, "or you might
have blurted out the name of the city near where the buried gold
is."

"Yes, we must guard our secret well, Tom," put in Mr. Damon.

"Well, Andy couldn't have known anything about the letter I got,"
declared Tom, "and if he only heard snatches of our talk it won't do
him much good."

"The only trouble is he's been there long enough to have heard most
of it." suggested Ned. They could talk freely now, for in going into
the parlor Mr. Swift had tightly closed the door after him. They
could just hear the murmur of his voice speaking to Andy.

"Well, even if he does guess about the city of gold, and its
location, I don't believe he'll try to go there," remarked Tom,
after a pause.

A moment later they heard Mr. Swift letting Andy out of the front
door, and then the inventor rejoined his son and the others. He held
an open letter in his hand.

"This is strange--very strange," he murmured.

"What is it?" asked Tom quickly.

"Why, Mr. Foger has written to me asking to be allowed to sell some
of our patents and machines on commission."

"Sell them on commission!" exclaimed his son. "Why does a
millionaire like Mr. Foger want to be selling goods on commission?
It's only a trick!"

"No, it's not a trick," said Mr. Swift slowly. "He is in earnest.
Tom, Mr. Foger has lost his millions. His fortune has been swept
away by unfortunate investments, he tells me, and he would be glad
of any work I could give him. That's why Andy brought the letter
to-night. I just sent him back with an answer."

"What did you say, dad?"

"I said I'd think it over."

"Mr. Foger's millions gone," mused Tom.

"And Andy in there listening to what we said about the city of
gold," added Ned. "No wonder he was glad the door was open. He'd be
there in a minute, Tom, if he could, and so would Mr. Foger, if he
thought he could get rich. He wouldn't have to sell goods on
commission if he could pick up a few of the golden images."

"That's right," agreed Tom, with an uneasy air. "I wish I knew just
how much Andy had heard. But perhaps it wasn't much."

The time was to come, however, when Tom was to learn to his sorrow
that Andy Foger had overheard a great deal.

"Bless my bankbook!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I never dreamed of such a
thing! Andy had every reason in the world for not wanting us to know
he was in there! No wonder he kept quiet. I'll wager all the while
he was as close to the open door as he could get, hoping to overhear
about the location of the place, so he could help his father get
back his lost fortune. Bless my hatband! It's a good thing Mrs.
Baggert told us he was there."

They all agreed with this, and then, as there was no further danger
of being overheard, they resumed their talk about the city of gold.
It was decided that they would have to wait the arrival of another
letter from Mr. Illingway before starting for Mexico.

"Well, as long as that much is settled, I think I'd better be going
home," suggested Mr. Damon. "I know my wife will be anxious about
me."

"I'll get out the sky racer and you'll be in Waterford in a jiffy,"
said Tom, and he kept his word, for the speedy aeroplane carried him
and his guest rapidly through the night, bringing Tom safely back
home.

It was several days after this, during which time Tom and Ned had
had many talks about the proposed trip. They had figured on what
sort of a craft to use in the journey. Tom had about decided on a
small, but very powerful, dirigible balloon, that could be packed in
a small compass and taken along.

"This city may be in some mountain valley, and a balloon will be the
only way we can get to it," he told Ned.

"That's right," agreed his chum. "By the way, you haven't heard any
more about Andy; have you?"

"Not a thing. Haven't even seen him. None of us have."

"There goes Rad, I wonder if he's seen him."

"No, or he'd have mentioned it to me. Hey, Rad," Tom called to the
colored man, "what are you going to do?"

"Whitewash de back fence, Massa Tom. It's in a mos' disrupted state
ob disgrace. I'se jest natchally got t' whitewash it."

"All right, Rad, and when you get through come back here. I've got
another job for you."

"A'right, Massa Tom, I shorely will," and Rad limped off with his
pail of whitewash, and the long-handled brush.

It may have been fate that sent Andy Foger along the rear road a
little later, and past the place where Eradicate was making the
fence less "disrupted." It may have been fate or Andy may have just
been sneaking along to see if he could overhear anything of Tom's
plans--a trick of which he was frequently guilty. At any rate, Andy
walked past where Eradicate was whitewashing. The colored man saw
the red-haired lad coming and murmured:

"Dere's dat no 'count white trash! I jest wish Massa Tom was here
now. He'd jest natchally wallop Andy," and Eradicate moved his
longhandled brush up and down, as though he were coating the Foger
lad with the white stuff.

As it happened, Eradicate was putting some of the liquid on a
particularly rough spot in the fence, a spot low down, and this
naturally made the handle of his brush stick out over the sidewalk,
and at this moment Andy Foger got there.

"Here, you black rascal!" the lad angrily exclaimed. "What do you
mean by blocking the sidewalk that way? It's against the law, and I
could have you arrested for that."

"No, could yo' really now?" asked Eradicate drawlingly for he was
not afraid of Andy.

"Yes, I could, and don't you give me any of your back-talk! Get that
brush out of the way!" and Andy kicked the long handle.

The natural result followed. The other end of the brush, wet with
whitewash, described a curve through the air, coming toward the mean
bully. And as the blow of Andy's foot jarred the brush loose, the
next moment it fell right on Andy's head, the white liquid trickling
down on his clothes, for Eradicate was not a miser when it came to
putting on whitewash.

For a moment Andy could not speak. Then he burst out with:

"Hi! You did that on purpose! I'll have you in jail for that! Look
at my hat, it's ruined! Look at my clothes! They're ruined! Oh, I'll
make you pay for this!"

"Deed, it shore was a accident," said Eradicate, trying not to laugh.
"You done did it yo'se'f!"

"I did not! You did it on purpose; Tom Swift put you in on this!
I'll--I'll--"

But Andy had to stop and splutter for some of the lime ran down off
his hat into his mouth, and he yelled:

"I'll--I'll--Ouch! Phew! Woof! Oof! Oh!"

Then, in his rage, he made a blind rush for Eradicate. Now the
colored man had no fear of Andy, but he did not want the pail of
whitewash to upset, and the said pail was right in the path of the
advancing youth.

"Look out!" cried Eradicate.

"I'll make you look out!" spluttered Andy. "I'll thrash you for
this!"

Eradicate caught up his pail. He did not want to have the trouble of
mixing more of the liquid. Just as he lifted it Andy aimed a kick
for him. But he mis-calculated, and his foot struck the bottom of
the pail and sent it flying from the hands of the colored man. Sent
it flying right toward Andy himself, for Eradicate jumped back out
of the way.

And the next moment a veritable deluge of whitewash was sprayed and
splashed and splattered over Andy, covering him with the snowy
liquid from head to foot!




CHAPTER IV

A PERILOUS FLIGHT


There was silence for a moment--there had to be--for Eradicate was
doubled over with mirth and could not even laugh aloud, and as for
Andy the whitewash running down his face and over his mouth
effectually prevented speech. But the silence did not last long.

Just as Eradicate caught his breath, and let out a hearty laugh,
Andy succeeded in wiping some of the liquid from his face so that it
was safe to open his mouth. Then he fairly let out a roar of rage.

"I'll have you put in jail for that, Eradicate Sampson!" he cried.
"You've nearly killed me: You'll suffer for this! My father will sue
you for damages, too! Look at me! Look at me!"

"Dat's jest what I'se doin', honey! Jest what I'se doin'!" gasped
Eradicate, hardly able to speak from laughter. "Yo' suah am a most
contrary lookin' specimen! Yo' suah is! Ha! Ha!"

"Stop it!" commanded Andy. "Don't you dare laugh at me, after
throwing whitewash on me."

"I didn't throw no whitewash on you!" protested the colored man.
"Yo' done poured it over yo'se'f, dat's what yo' done did. An' I
jest cain't help laughin', honey. I jest natchally cain't! Yo' look
so mortally distressed, dat's what yo' does!"

Andy's rage might have been dangerous, but the very excess of it
rendered him incapable of doing anything. He was wild at Eradicate
and would willingly have attacked him, but the whitewash was
beginning to soak through his clothes, and he was so wet and
miserable that soon all the fight oozed out of him.

Then, too, though Eradicate was old, he was strong and he still held
the long handle of the whitewash brush, no unformidable weapon. So
Andy contented himself with verbal abuse. He called Eradicate all
the mean names he could think of, ending up with:

"You won't hear the last of this for a long time, either. I'll have
you, and your old rack of bones, your mule Boomerang, run out of
town, that's what I will."

"What's dat? Yo' all gwine t'hab Boomerang run out ob town?"
demanded Eradicate, a sudden change coming over him. His mule was
his most beloved possession. "Lemme tell yo' one thing, Massa Andy.
I'se an old colored man, an' I ain't much 'count mebby. But ef yo'
dare lay one finger on mah mule Boomerang, only jest one finger,
mind you', why I'll--I'll jest natchally drown yo'--all in
whitewash, dat's what I'll do!"

Eradicate drew himself up proudly, and boldly faced Andy. The bully
shrank back. He knew better than to arouse the colored man further.

"You'll suffer for this," predicted the bully. "I'm not going to
forget it. Tom Swift put you up to this, and I'll take it out of him
the next time I see him. He's to blame."

"Now looky heah, honey!" said Eradicate quick. "Doan't yo' all git
no sich notion laik dat in yo' head. Massa Tom didn't tell me to do
noth'in an I ain't. He ain't eben 'round yeh. An' annudder thing.
Yo'se t' blame to' this yo' own se'f. Ef yo' hadn't gone fo' is kick
de bucket it nebber would 'a happened. It's yo' own fault, honey,
an' doan't yo' forgit dat! No, yo' better go home an' git some dry
clothes on."

It was good advice, for Andy was soaking wet. He glared angrily at
Eradicate, and then swung off down the road, the whitewash dripping
from his garments at every step.

"Land a massy! But he suah did use up all mah lime." complained
Eradicate, as he picked up the overturned pail. "I's got t' make
mo'. But I doan't mind," he added cheerfully, and then, as he saw
the woe-begone figure of Andy shuffling along, he laughed heartily,
fitted the brush on the handle and went to tell Tom and Ned what had
happened, and make more whitewash.

"Hum! Served him right," commented the young inventor.

"I suppose he'll try to play some mean trick on you now," commented
Ned. "He'll think you had some hand in what Rad did."

"Let him," answered Tom. "If he tries any of his games I'll be ready
for him."

"Maybe we'll soon be able to start for the city of gold," suggested
Ned.

"I'm afraid not in some time," was his chum's reply. "It's going to
take quite a while to get ready, and then we've got to wait to hear
from Mr. Illingway. I wonder if it's true that Mr. Foger has lost
his fortune; or was that only a trick?"

"Oh, it's true enough," answered Ned. "I heard some of the bank
officials talking about it the other day." Ned was employed in one
of the Shopton banks, an institution in which Tom and his father
owned considerable stock. "He hasn't hardly any money left, and he
may leave town and go out west, I heard."

"He can't go any too soon to suit me," spoke Tom, "and I hope he
takes Andy with him."

"Your father isn't going to have any business dealings with Mr.
Foger then?"

"I guess not. Dad doesn't trust him. But say, Ned, what do you say
to a little trip in my sky racer? I want to go over to Waterford and
see Mr. Damon. We can talk about our trip, and he was going to get
some big maps of Central Mexico to study. Will you come?"

"I will this afternoon. I've got to go to the bank now."

"All right, I'll wait for you. In the meanwhile I'll be tuning up
the motor. It didn't run just right the other night."

The two chums separated, Ned to go downtown to the bank, while Tom
hastened to the shed where he kept his speedy little air craft.
Meanwhile Eradicate went on whitewashing the fence, pausing every
now and then to chuckle at the memory of Andy Foger.

Tom found that some minor adjustments had to be made to the motor,
and they took him a couple of hours to complete. It was nearly noon
when he finished, and leaving the sky racer in the open space in
front of the shed, he went in the house to wash up, for his face and
hands were begrimed with dirt and oil.

"But the machine's in good shape," he said to the housekeeper when
she objected to his appearance, "and Ned and I will have a speedy
spin this afternoon."

"Oh, you reckless boys! Risking your lives in those aeroplanes!"
exclaimed Mrs. Baggert.

"Why, they're safer than street cars!" declared Tom with a laugh.
"Just think how often street cars collide, and you never heard of an
aeroplane doing that."

"No, but think what happens when they fall."

"That's it!" cried Tom gaily, "when they fall you don't have time to
think. But is dinner ready? I'm hungry."

"Never saw you when you weren't." commented the housekeeper
laughing. "Yes, you can sit right down. We won't wait for your
father. He said he'd be late as he wants to find something about his
gyroscope. I never did any such people as inventors for spoiling
their meals," she added as she put dinner on the table.

Mr. Swift came in before his son had finished.

"Was Andy Foger here to see me again?" he asked.

"No, why do you ask?" inquired Tom quickly.

"I just saw him out by the aeroplane shed, and--"

Tom jumped up without another word, and hurried to where his sky
racer rested on its bicycle wheels.

He breathed more easily when he saw that Andy was not in sight, and
a hurried inspection of the aeroplane did not disclose that it had
been tampered with.

"Anything the matter?" asked Mr. Swift, as he followed his son.

"No, but when you mentioned that Andy was out here I thought he
might have been up to some of his tricks. He had a little trouble
with Eradicate this morning, and he threatened to get even with me
for it." And Tom told of the whitewashing incident.

"I just happened to see him as I was coming to dinner," went on the
aged inventor. "He hurried off--when he noticed me, but I thought he
might have been here to leave another letter."

"No," said Tom. "I must tell Eradicate to keep his weather eye open
for him, though. No telling what Andy'll do. Well, I must finish
eating, or Ned will be here before I'm through."

After dinner, Ned arrived, and helped Tom start the motor. With a
roar and a bang the swift little machine rapidly got up speed, the
propellers whizing so fast that they looked like blurs of light. The
sky racer was held back by a rope, as Tom wanted to note the "pull"
of the propellers, the force they exerted against the air being
registered on a spring balance.

"What does it say, Ned?" cried the young inventor as he adjusted the
carburettor.

"A shade over nine hundred pounds."

"Guess that'll do. Hop in, and I'll cast off from the seat."

This Tom frequently did when there was no one available to hold the
aeroplane for him while he mounted. He could pull a cord, loosen the
retaining rope, and away the craft would go.

The two chums were soon seated side by side and then Tom, grasping
the steering wheel, turned on full power and jerked the releasing
rope.

Over the ground shot the sky racer, quickly attaining speed until,
with a deft motion, the young inventor tilted the deflecting rudder
and up into the air they shot.

"Oh, this is glorious!" cried Ned, for, though he had often taken
trips with Tom, every time he went up he seemed to enjoy it more.

Higher and higher they rose, and then with the sharp nose of
the craft turned in the proper direction they sailed off well above
the trees and houses toward Waterford.

"Guess I'll go up a bit higher," Tom yelled into his chums ear when
they were near their destination. "Then I can make a spiral glide to
earth. I haven't practiced that lately."

Up and up went the sky racer, until it was well over the town of
Waterford, where Mr. Damon lived.

"There's his place!" yelled Ned, pointing downward. He had to yell
to be heard above the noise of the motor. Tom nodded in reply. He,
too, had picked out Mr. Damon's large estate. There were many good
landing places on it, one near the house for which Tom headed.

The aeroplane shot downward, like a bird darting from the sky. Tom
grasped the rudder lever more firmly. He looked below him, and then,
suddenly he uttered a cry of terror.

"What is it?" yelled Ned.

"The rudder! The deflecting rudder! It's jammed, and I can't throw
her head up! We're going to smash into the ground, Ned! I can't
control her! Something has gone wrong!"




CHAPTER V

NEWS FROM AFRICA


Blankly, and with fear in his eyes, Ned gazed at Tom. The young
inventor was frantically working at the levers, trying to loosen the
jammed rudder--the rudder that enabled the sky racer to be tilted
upward.

"Can't you do it?" cried Ned.

Tom shook his head helplessly, but he did not give up. Madly he
worked on, and there was need of haste, for every moment the
aeroplane was shooting nearer and nearer to the earth.

Ned glanced down. They were headed for the centre of a large grass
plot and the bank employee found himself grimly thinking that at
least the turf would be softer to fall on than bare ground.

"I--I can't imagine what's happened!" cried Tom.

He was still yanking on the lever, but it would not move, and unless
the head of the aeroplane was thrown up quickly, to catch the air,
and check its downward flight, they would both be killed.

"Shut off the engine and vol-plane!" cried Ned.

"No use," answered Tom. "I can't vol-plane when I can't throw her
head up to check her."

But he did shut off the banging, throbbing motor, and then in
silence they continued to fall. Ned had half a notion to jump, but
he knew that would mean instant death, and there was just a bare
chance that if he stayed in the machine it would take off some of
the shock.

They could see Mr. Damon now. The old man had run out of his house
at the sight of the approaching aeroplane. He knew it well, for he
had ridden with Tom many times. He looked up and waved his hand to
the boys, but he had no idea of their danger, and he could not have
helped them had he been aware of it.

He must have soon guessed that something was wrong though, for a
moment later, the lads could hear him shout in terror, and could see
him motion to them. Later he said he saw that Tom was coming down at
too great an inclination, and he feared that the machine could not
be thrown up into the wind quickly enough!

"Here goes something--the lever or the rudder!" cried Tom in
desperation, as he gave it a mighty yank. Up to now he had not
pulled with all his strength as he feared to break some connecting-rod,
wire or lever. But now he must take every chance. "If I can get
that rudder up even a little we're safe!" he went on.

Once more he gave a terrific pull on the handle. There was a
snapping sound and Tom gave a yell of delight.

"That's the stuff!" he cried. "She's moving! We're all right now!"

And the rudder had moved only just in time, for when the aeroplane
was within a hundred feet of the earth the head was suddenly
elevated and she glided along on a level "keel."

"Look out!" yelled Ned, for a new danger presented. They were so
near the earth that Tom had over-run his original stepping place,
and now the sky racer was headed directly for Mr. Damon's house, and
might crash into it.

"All right! I've got her in hand!" said the young inventor
reassuringly.

Tom tilted the rudder at a sharp angle to have the air pressure act
as a brake. At the same time he swerved the craft to one side so
that there was no longer any danger of crashing into the house.

"Bless my--" began Mr. Damon, but in the excitement he really
didn't know what to bless, so he stopped short.

A moment later, feeling that the momentum had been checked enough to
make it safe to land, Tom directed the craft downward again and came
gracefully to earth, a short distance away from his eccentric
friend.

"Whew!" gasped the young inventor, as he leaped from his seat. "That
was a scary time while it lasted."

"I should say so!" agreed Ned.

"Bless my straw hat!" cried Mr. Damon. "What happened? Did you lose
control of her, Tom?"

"No, the deflecting rudder got jammed, and I couldn't move it. I
must look and see what's the matter."

"I thought it was all up with you," commented Mr. Damon, as he
followed Tom and Ned to the front end of the craft, where the
deflecting mechanism was located.

Tom glanced quickly over it. His quick eye caught something, and he
uttered an exclamation.

"Look!" the young inventor cried. "No wonder it jammed!" and from a
copper sleeve, through which ran the wire that worked the rudder, he
pulled a small iron bolt. "That got between the sleeve and the wire,
and I couldn't move it," he explained. "But when I pulled hard I
loosened it."

"How did it fall in there?" asked Ned.

"It didn't FALL there." spoke Tom quietly. "It was PUT there."

"Put there! Bless my insurance policy! Who did such a dastardly
trick?" cried Mr. Damon.

"I don't know," answered Tom still quietly, "but I suspect it was
Andy Foger, and he was never any nearer to putting us out of
business than a little while ago, Ned."

"Do you mean to say that he deliberately tried to injure you?" asked
Mr. Damon.

"Well, he may not have intended to hurt us, but that's what would
have happened if I hadn't been able to throw her up into the wind
when I did," replied Tom. Then he told of Mr. Swift having seen the
red-haired bully near the aeroplane. "Andy may have only intended to
put my machine out of working order," went on the young inventor,
"but it might have been worse than that," and he could not repress a
shudder.

"Are you going to say anything to him?" asked Ned.

"I certainly am!" replied Torn quickly. "He doesn't realize that he
might have crippled us both for life. I sure am going to say
something to him when I get back."

But Tom did not get the chance, for when he and Ned returned to
Shopton,--the sky racer behaving beautifully on the homeward trip,--it
was learned that Mr. Foger had suddenly left town, taking Andy
with him.

"Maybe he knew I'd be after him," said Tom grimly, and so that
incident was closed for the time being, but it was a long time
before Tom and Ned got over their fright.

They had a nice visit with Mr. Damon, and talked of the city of gold
to their heart's content, looking at several large maps of Mexico
that the eccentric man had procured, and locating, as well as they
could from the meager map and description they had, where the
underground treasures might be.

"I suppose you are getting ready to go, Mr. Damon?" remarked Ned.

"Hush!" cautioned the odd man, looking quickly around the room. "I
haven't said anything to my wife about it yet. You know she doesn't
like me to go off on these 'wild goose chases' as she calls them,
with you, Tom Swift. But bless my railroad ticket! It's half the fun
of my life."

"Then don't you think you can go?" asked the young inventor eagerly,
for he had formed a strong like for Mr. Damon, and would very much
regret to go without him.

"Oh, bless my necktie! I think I'll be able to manage it," was the
answer. "I'm not going to tell her anything about it until the last
minute, and then I'll promise to bring her back one of the golden
images. She won't object then."

"Good!" exclaimed Tom. "I hope we can all bring back some of the
images."

"Yes, I know who you'll bring one for," said Ned with a laugh, and
he took care to get beyond the reach of Tom's fist. "Her first name
is Mary," he added.

"You get out!" laughed Tom, blushing at the same time.

"Ah! What a thing it is to be young!" exclaimed Mr. Damon with a
mock sigh. The boys laughed, for the old man, though well along in
years, was a boy at heart.

They talked at some length, speculating when they might hear from
Mr. Illingway, and discussing the sort of an outfit that would be
best to take with them.

Then, as the afternoon was drawing to a close, Tom and Ned went back
in the aeroplane, hearing the news about the Fogers as I have
previously mentioned.

"Well, I'll have to wait until I do see Andy to take it out of his
hide," remarked Tom grimly. "I'm glad he's out of the way, though.
There won't be any more danger of his overhearing our plans, and I
can work in peace on the dirigible balloon."

Though Tom had many air crafts, the one he thought best suited to
take with them on their search for the city of gold would have to be
constructed from parts of several machines, and it would take some
time.

Tom began work on it the next day, his father helping him, as did
Mr. Damon and Ned occasionally. Several weeks were spent in this
way, meanwhile the mails being anxiously watched for news from
Africa.

"Here you are, Tom!" called the postman one morning, as he walked
out to the shop where the young inventor was busy over the balloon.
"Here's another letter from that Buggy-wuggy place."

"Oh, you mean Gumba Twamba, in Africa!" laughed the lad. "Good!
That's what I've been waiting for. Now to see what the missionary
says."

"I hope you're not going to go as a missionary to Africa, Tom," said
the postman.

"No danger. This is just a letter from a friend there. He sent me
some facts so I can go off on another expedition."

"Oh, you're always going off on wild adventures," commented Uncle
Sam's messenger with a shake of his head as he hurried away, while
Tom tore open the letter from Africa and eagerly read it.




CHAPTER VI

"BEWARE THE HEAD-HUNTERS!"


"That's what I want!" exclaimed the young inventor, as he finished
the perusal of the missionary's missive.

"What is it?" asked Mr. Swift, entering the shop at that moment.

"News from Africa, dad. Mr. Illingway went to a lot of trouble to
get more information for us about the city of gold, and he sends a
better map. It seems there was one among the effects of the white
man who died near where Mr. Illingway has his mission. With this
map, and what additional information I have, we ought to locate the
underground city. Look, dad," and the lad showed the map.

"Humph!" exclaimed Mr. Swift with a smile. "I don't call that a very
clear map. It shows a part of Central Mexico, that's true, but it's
on such a small scale I don't see how you're going to tell anything
by it."

"But I have a description," explained Tom. "It seems according to
Mr. Illingway's letter, that you have to go to the coast and strike
into the interior until you are near the old city of Poltec. That
used to be it's name, but Mr. Illingway says it may be abandoned
now, or the name changed. But I guess we can find it."

"Then, according to what he could learn from the African natives,
who talked with the white man, the best way is to hire ox carts and
strike into the jungle. That's the only way to carry our baggage,
and the dirigible balloon which I'm going to take along."

"Pretty uncertain way to look for a buried city of gold," commented
Mr. Swift. "But I suppose even if you don't find it you'll have the
fun of searching for it, Tom."

"But we ARE going to find it!" the lad declared. "We'll get there,
you'll see!"

"But how are you going to know it when you see it?" asked his
father. "If it's underground even a balloon won't help you much."

"It's true it is underground," agreed Tom, "but there must be an
entrance to it somewhere, and I'm going to hunt for that entrance.
Mr. Illingway writes that the city is a very old one, and was built
underground by the priests of some people allied to the Aztecs. They
wanted a refuge in times of war and they also hid their valuables
there. They must have been rich to have so much gold, or else they
didn't value it as we do."

"That might be so," assented Mr. Swift. "But I still maintain, Tom,
that it's like looking for a needle in a haystack."

"Still, I'm going to have a try for it," asserted the lad. "If I can
once locate the plain of the big temple I'll be near the entrance to
the underground city."

"What is the 'plain of the big temple,' Tom?"

"Mr. Illingway writes," said the lad, again referring to the letter,
"that somewhere near the beginning of the tunnel that leads into the
city of gold, there is an immense flat plain, on which the ancient
Aztecs once built a great temple. Maybe they worshiped the golden
images there. Anyhow the temple is in ruins now, near an overgrown
jungle, according to the stories the white man used to tell. He once
got as near the city of gold as the big temple, but hostile natives
drove him and his party back. Then he went to Africa after getting
an image from someone, and died there. So no one since has ever
found the city of gold."

"Well, I hope you do, Tom, but I doubt it. However, I suppose you
will hurry your preparations for going away, now that you have all
the information you can get."

"Right, dad. I must send word to Mr. Damon and Ned at once. A few
more days' work, and my balloon will be in shape for a trial flight,
and then I can take it apart, pack it up, and ship it. Then ho! for
the city of gold!"

Mr. Swift smiled at his son's enthusiasm, but he did not check it.
He knew Tom too well for that.

Naturally Mr. Damon and Ned were delighted with the additional
information the missionary had sent, and Ned agreed with Tom that it
was a mere matter of diligent search to find the underground city.

"Bless my collar button!" cried Mr. Damon. "It may not be as easy as
all that, but Tom Swift isn't the kind that gives up! We'll get
there!"

Meanwhile Tom worked diligently on his balloon. He sent a letter of
thanks to Mr. Illingway, at the same time requesting that if any
more information was obtained within the next three weeks to cable
it, as there would not be time for a letter to reach Shopton ere Tom
planned to leave for Mexico.

The following days were busy ones for all. There was much to be
done, and Tom worked night and day. They had to get rifles ready,
for they might meet hostile natives. Then, too, they had to arrange
for the proper clothing, and other supplies.

To take apart and ship the balloon was no small task, and then there
were the passages to engage on a steamer that would land them at the
nearest point to strike into the interior, the question of
transportation after reaching Mexico, and many other matters to
consider.

But gradually things began to shape themselves and it looked as
though the expedition could start for the city of gold in about two
weeks after the receipt of the second letter from the missionary.

"I think I'll give the balloon a trial to-morrow," said Tom one
night, after a hard day's work, "It's all ready, and it ought to
work pretty good. It will be just what we need to sail over some
dense jungle and land down on the plain by the great temple."

"Bless my slippers!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I must think up some way
of telling my wife that I'm going."

"Haven't you told her yet?" asked Ned.

The eccentric man shook his head.

"I haven't had a good chance," he said, "but I think I'll tell her
to-morrow, and promise her one of the gold images. Then she won't
mind."

Tom was just a little bit nervous when he got ready for a trial
flight in the new dirigible balloon. To tell the truth he much
preferred aeroplanes to balloons, but he realized that in a country
where the jungle growth prevailed, and where there might be no level
places to get a "take off," or a starting place for an aeroplane,
the balloon was more feasible.

But he need have had no fears, for the balloon worked perfectly. In
the bag Tom used a new gas, much more powerful even than hydrogen,
and which he could make from chemicals that could easily be carried
on their trip.

The air craft was small but powerful, and could easily carry Tom,
Ned and Mr. Damon, together with a quantity of food and other
supplies. They intended to use it by starting from the place where
they would leave the most of their baggage, after getting as near to
the city of gold as they could by foot trails. Tom hoped to
establish a camp in the interior of Mexico, and make trips off in
different directions to search for the ruined temple. If
unsuccessful they could sail back each night, and if he should
discover the entrance to the buried city there was food enough in
the car of the balloon to enable them to stay away from camp for a
week or more.

In order to give the balloon a good test, Tom took up with him not
only Ned and Mr. Damon, but Eradicate and Mr. Swift to equalize the
weight of food and supplies that later would be carried. The test
showed that the craft more than came up to expectations, though the
trial trip was a little marred by the nervousness of the colored
man.

"I doan't jest laik dis yeah kind of travelin'," said Eradicate.
"I'd radder be on de ground."

Most of the remaining two weeks were spent in packing the balloon
for shipment, and then the travelers got their own personal
equipment ready. They put up some condensed food, but they depended
on getting the major portion in Mexico.

It was two days before they were to start. Their passage had been
engaged on a steamer, and the balloon and most of their effects had
been shipped. Mr. Damon had broken the news to his wife, and she had
consented to allow him to go, though she said it would be for the
last time.

"But if I bring her back a nice, big, gold image I know she'll let
me go on other trips with you, Tom." said the eccentric man. "Bless
my yard stick, if I couldn't go off on an adventure now and then I
don't know what I'd do."

They were in the library of the Swift home that evening. Tom, Ned,
Mr. Damon and the aged inventor, and of course the only thing talked
of was the prospective trip to the city of gold.

"What I can't understand," Mr. Swift was saying, "is why the natives
made so many of the same images of gold, and why there is that large
one in the underground place. What did they want of it?"

"That's part of the mystery we hope to solve," said Tom. "I'm going
to bring that big image home with me if I can. I guess--"

He was interrupted by a ring at the front door.

"I hope that isn't Andy Foger," remarked Ned.

"No danger," replied Tom. "He'll keep away from here after what he
did to my aeroplane."

Mrs. Baggert went to the door.

"A message for you, Tom," she announced a little later, handing in
an envelope.

"Hello, a cablegram!" exclaimed the young inventor. "It must be from
Mr. Illingway, in Africa. It is," he added a moment later as he
glanced at the signature.

"What does he say?" asked Mr. Swift.

"Can he give us any more definite information about the city of
gold?" inquired Ned.

"I'll read it," said Tom, and there was a curious, strained note in
his voice. "This is what it says:"

"'No more information obtainable. But if you go to the city of gold
beware of the head-hunters!'"

"Head-hunters!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Bless my top-knot, what are
they?"

"I don't know," answered Tom simply, "but whatever they are we've
got to be on the lookout for them when we get to the gold city, and
that's where I'm going, head-hunters or no head-hunters!"




CHAPTER VII

TOM MAKES A PROMISE


It may well be imagined that the cable warning sent by Mr. Illingway
caused our friends considerable anxiety. Coming as it did, almost at
the last minute, so brief--giving no particulars--it was very
ominous. Yet Tom was not afraid, nor did any of the others show
signs of fear.

"Bless my shotgun!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, as he looked at the few
words on the paper which Tom passed around. "I wish Mr. Illingway
had said more about the head-hunters--or less."

"What do you mean?" asked Ned.

"Well, I wish he'd given us more particulars, told us where we might
be on the lookout for the head-hunters, what sort of chaps they
were, and what they do to a fellow when they catch him."

"Their name seems plainly to indicate what they do," spoke Mr. Swift
grimly. "They cut off the head of their enemies, like that
interesting Filipino tribe. But perhaps they may not get after you.
If they do--"

"If they do," interrupted Tom with a laugh, "we'll hop in our
dirigible balloon, and get above THEIR heads, and then I guess we
can give a good account of ourselves. But would you rather Mr.
Illingway had said less about them, Mr. Damon?"

"Yes, I wish, as long as he couldn't tell us more, that he'd kept
quiet about them altogether. It's no fun to be always on the lookout
for danger. I'm afraid it will get on my nerves, to be continually
looking behind a rock, or a tree, for a head-hunter. Bless my comb
and brush!"

"Well, 'forewarned is forearmed,'" quoted Ned. "We won't think
anything more about them. It was kind of Mr. Illingway to warn us,
and perhaps the head-hunters have all disappeared since that white
traveler was after the city of gold. Some story which he told his
friends, the natives in Africa, is probably responsible for the
missionary's warning. Let's check over our lists of supplies, Tom,
and see if we have everything down!"

"Can't you do that alone, Ned?"

"Why?" and Ned glanced quickly at his chum. Mr. Damon and Mr. Swift
had left the room.

"Well, I've get an engagement--a call to make, and--"

"Enough said, old man. Go ahead. I know what it is to be in love.
I'll check the lists. Go see--"

"Now don't get fresh!" advised Tom with a laugh, as he went to his
room to get ready to pay a little visit.

"I say, Tom," called Ned after him. "What about Eradicate? Are you
going to take him along? He'd be a big help."

"I know he would, but he doesn't want to go. He balked worse than
his mule Boomerang when I spoke about an underground city. He said
he didn't want to be buried before his time. I didn't tell him we
were going after gold, for sometimes Rad talks a bit too much, and I
don't want our plans known."

"But I did tell him that Mexico was a great place for chickens, and
that he might see a bull fight."

"Did he rise to that bait?"

"Not a bit of it. He said he had enough chickens of his own, and he
never did like bulls anyhow. So I guess we'll have to get along
without Rad."

"It looks like it. Well, go and enjoy yourself. I'll wait here until
you come back, though I know you'll be pretty late, but I want to
make sure of our lists."

"All right, Ned," and Tom busied himself with his personal
appearance, for he was very particular when going to call on young
ladies.

A little later he was admitted to her house by Miss Mary Nestor, and
the two began an animated conversation, for this was in the nature
of a farewell call by Tom.

"And you are really about to start off on your wild search?" asked
the girl. "My! It seems just like something out of a book!"

"Doesn't it?" agreed Tom. "However, I hope there's more truth in it
than there is in some books. I should hate to be disappointed, after
all our preparation, and not find the buried city after all."

"Do you really think there is so much gold there?"

"Of course there's a good deal of guesswork about it," admitted the
young inventor, "and it may be exaggerated, for such things usually
are when a traveler has to depend on the accounts of natives."

"But it is certain that there is a big golden image in the interior
of Africa, and that it came from Mexico. Mr. Illingway isn't a
person who could easily be deceived. Then, too, the old Aztecs and
their allies were wonderful workers in gold and silver, for look at
what Cortez and his soldiers took from them."

"My! This is quite like a lecture in history!" exclaimed Mary with a
laugh. "But it's interesting. I wonder if there are any SMALL,
golden images there, as you say there are so many in the underground
city."

"Lots of them!" exclaimed Tom, as confidently as though he had seen
them. "I'll tell you what I'll do, Mary. I'll bring you back one of
these golden images for an ornament. It would look nice on that
shelf I think," and Tom pointed to a vacant space on the mantle.
"I'll bring you a large one or a small one, or both, Mary."

"Oh, you reckless boy! Well, I suppose it WOULD be nice to have two,
for they must be very valuable. But I'm not going to tax you too
much. If you bring me back two SMALL ones, I'll put one down here
and the other--"

She paused and blushed slightly.

"Yes, and the other," suggested Tom.

"I'll put the other up in my room to remember you by," she finished
with a laugh, "so pick out one that is nicely carved. Some of those
foreign ones, such as the Chinese have, are hideous."

"That's right," agreed Tom, "and I'll see that you get a nice one.
Those Aztecs used to do some wonderful work in gold and silver
carving. I've seen specimens in the museum."

Then the two young people fell to talking of the wonderful trip that
lay before Tom, and Mary, several times, urged him to be careful of
the dangers he would be likely to encounter.

Tom said nothing to her of the head-hunters. He did not want to
alarm Miss Nestor, and then, too, he thought the less he allowed his
mind to dwell on that unpleasant feature of the journey, the less
likely it would be to get on the nerves of all of them.

Ned was right when he predicted that Tom would make quite a lengthy
visit. There was much to talk about and he did not expect to see
Mary again for some time. But finally he realized that he must
leave, and with a renewed promise to bring back with him the two
small gold images, and after saying good-bye to Mr. and Mrs. Nestor,
Tom took his leave.

"If you get marooned in the underground city, Tom," said Mr. Nestor,
"I hope you can rig up a wireless outfit, and get help, as you did
for us on Earthquake Island."

"I hope so," answered our hero with a laugh, and then, a little
saddened by his farewell, and pondering rather solemnly on what lay
before him--the dangers of travel as well as those of the
head-hunters--Tom hastened back to his own home.

The young inventor found Ned busy over the list of supplies,
diligently checking it and comparing it with the one originally made
out, to see that nothing had been omitted. Mr. Damon had gone to his
room, for he was to remain at the Swift house until he left with the
gold-hunting expedition.

"Oh, you've got back, have you?" asked Tom's chum, with a teasing
air. "I thought you'd given up the trip to the city of gold."

"Oh, cheese it!" invited Tom. "Come on, now I'll help you. Where's
Eradicate? I want him to go out and see that the shop is locked up."

"He was in here a while ago and he said he was going to look after
things outside. He told me quite a piece of news."

"What was it?"

"It seems that the Foger house has been sold, the furniture was all
moved out to-day, and the family has left, bag and baggage. I asked
Rad if he had heard where to, and he said someone down in the
village was saying that Andy and his father have engaged passage on
some ship that sails day after to-morrow."

"Day after to-morrow!" cried Tom. "Why, that's when ours sails! I
hope Andy didn't hear enough of our plans that night to try to
follow us."

"It would be just like him," returned Ned, "but I don't think
they'll do it. They haven't enough information to go on. More likely
Mr. Foger is going to try some new ventures to get back his lost
fortune."

"Well, I hope he and Andy keep away from us. They make trouble
everywhere they go. Now come on, get busy."

And, though Tom tried to drive from his mind the thoughts of the
Fogers, yet it was with an uneasy sense of some portending disaster
that he went on with the work of preparing for the trip into the
unknown. He said nothing to Ned about it, but perhaps his chum
guessed.

"That'll do," said Tom after an hour's labor. "We'll call it a
night's work and quit. Can't you stay here--we've got several spare
beds."

"No, I'm expected home."

"I'll walk a ways with you," said Tom, and when he had left his chum
at his house our hero returned by a street that would take him past
the Foger residence. It was shrouded in darkness.

"Everybody's cleared out," said Tom in a low voice as he glance at
the gloomy house. "Well, all I hope is that they don't camp on our
trail."




CHAPTER VIII

ERADICATE WILL GO


"I guess everything is all ready," remarked Tom,

"I can't think of anything more to do," said Ned.

"Bless my grip-sack!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "if there IS, someone
else has got to do it. I'm tired to death! I never thought getting
ready to go off on a simple little trip was so much work. We ought
to have made the whole journey from start to finish in an airship,
Tom, as we've done before."

"It was hardly practical," answered the young inventor. "I'm afraid
we'll be searching for this underground city for some time, and
we'll only need an airship or a dirigible balloon for short trips
here and there. We've got to go a good deal by information the
natives can furnish us, and we can't get at them very well when
sailing in the air."

"That's right," agreed the eccentric man. "Well, I'm glad we're
ready to start."

It was the evening of the day before they were to leave for New
York, there to take steamer to a small port on the Mexican coast,
and every one was busy putting the finishing details to the packing
of his personal baggage.

The balloon, taken apart for easy transportation, had been sent on
ahead, as had most of their supplies, weapons and other needed
articles. All they would carry with them were handbags, containing
some clothing.

"Then you've fully made up your mind not to go; eh Rad?" asked Tom
of the colored man, who was busy helping them pack. "You won't take
a chance in the underground city?"

"No, Massa Tom, I's gwine t' stay home an' look after yo' daddy.
'Sides, Boomerang is gettin' old, an' when a mule gits along in
yeahs him temper ain't none ob de best."

"Boomerang's temper never was very good, anyhow," said Tom. "Many's
the time he's balked on you, Rad."

"I know it, Massa Tom, but dat jest shows what strong character he
done hab. Nobody kin manage dat air mule but me, an' if I were to
leave him, dere suah would be trouble. No, I cain't go to no
underground city, nohow."

"But if you found some of the golden images you could buy another
mule--two of 'em if you wanted that many," said Ned, and a moment
later he remembered that Tom did not want the colored man to know
anything about the trip after gold. He had been led to believe that
it was merely a trip to locate an ancient city.

"Did yo' done say GOLDEN images?" asked Eradicate, his eyes big with
wonder.

Ned glanced apologetically at Tom, and said, with a shrug of his
shoulders:

"Well, I--"

"Oh, we might as well tell him," interrupted the young inventor.
"Yes, Rad, we expect to bring back some images of solid gold from
the underground city. If you go along you might get some for your
self. Of course there's nothing certain about it, but--"

"How--how big am dem gold images, Massa Tom?" asked Eradicate
eagerly.

"You've got him going now, Tom," whispered Ned.

"How big?" repeated Tom musingly. "Hum, well, there's one that is
said to be bigger than three men, and there must be any number of
smaller ones--say boy's size, and from that on down to the real
little ones, according to Mr. Illingway."

"Real gold--yellow, gold images as big as a man," said Eradicate in
a dreamy voice. "An'--an' some big as boys. By golly, Massa Tom, am
yo' suah ob dat?"

"Pretty sure. Why, Rad?"

"Cause I's gwine wid yo', dat's why! I didn't know yo' all was goin'
after gold. My golly I's gwine along! Look out ob mah way, ef yo'
please,--Mr. Damon. I'se gwine t' pack up an' go. Am it too late to
git me a ticket, Massa Tom?"

"No, I guess there's room on the ship. But say, Rad, I don't want
you to talk about this gold image part of it. You can say we're
going to look for an underground city, but no more, mind you!"

"Trust me, Massa Tom; trust me. I--I'll jest say BRASS images, dat's
what I'll say--BRASS! We's gwine after brass, an' not GOLD. By
golly, I'll fool 'em!"

"No, don't say anything about the images--brass or gold," cautioned
Tom. "But, Rad, there's another thing. We may run across the head-hunters
down there in Mexico."

"Head-hunters? What's dem?"

"They crush you, and chop off your head for an ornament."

"Ha! Ha! Den I ain't in no danger, Massa Tom. Nobody would want de
head ob an old colored man fo' an ornament. By golly! I's safe from
dem head-hunters! Yo' can't scare me dat way. I's gwine after some
of dem gold images, I is, an' ef I gits some I'll build de finest
stable Boomerang ever saw, an' he kin hab oats fo' times a day.
Dat's what I's gwine t' do. Now look out ob mah way, Mr. Damon, ef
yo' pleases. I's gwine t' pack up," and Eradicate shuffled off,
chuckling to himself and muttering over and over again: "Gold
images! Gold images! Images ob solid gold! Think ob dat! By golly!"

"Think he'll give the secret away, Tom?" asked Ned.

"No. And I'm glad he's going. Four makes a nice party, and Rad will
make himself useful around camp. I've been sorry ever since he said
he wouldn't go, on account of the good cooking I'd miss, for Rad is
sure a fine cook."

"Bless my knife and fork, that's so!" agreed Mr. Damon.

So complete were the preparations of our friends that nothing
remained to do the next morning. Eradicate had his things all in
readiness, and when good-byes had been said to Mr. Swift, and Mrs.
Baggert, Tom, Ned and Mr. Damon, followed by the faithful colored
man, set off for the depot to take the train for New York. There
they were to take a coast steamer for Tampico, Mexico, and once
there they could arrange for transportation into the interior.

The journey to New York was uneventful, but on arrival there they
met with their first disappointment. The steamer on which they were
to take passage had been delayed by a storm, and had only just
arrived at her dock.

"It will take three days to get her cargo out, clean the boilers,
load another cargo in her and get ready to sail," the agent informed
them.

"Then what are we to do?" asked Ned.

"Guess we'll have to wait; that's all," answered Tom. "It doesn't
much matter. We're in no great rush, and it will give us three days
around New York. We'll see the sights."

"Bless my spectacles! Its an ill wind that blows nobody good,"
remarked Mr. Damon, "I've been wanting to visit New York for some
time, and here's my chance."

"We'll go to a good hotel," said Tom, "and enjoy ourselves as long as
we have to wait for the steamer."




CHAPTER IX

"THAT LOOKED LIKE ANDY!"


What seemed at first as if it was going to be a tedious time of
waiting, proved to be a delightful experience, for our friends found
much to occupy their attention in New York.

Tom and Ned went to several theatrical performances, and wanted Mr.
Damon to go with them, but the odd man said he wanted to visit
several museums and other places of historical interest, so, while
he was browsing around that way, the boys went to Bronx Park, and to
Central Park, to look at the animals, and otherwise enjoy
themselves.

Eradicate put in his time in his own way. Much of it was spent in
restaurants where chicken and pork chops figured largely on the
bills of fare, for Tom had plentifully supplied the colored man with
money, and did not ask an accounting.

"What else do you do besides eat, Rad?" asked Ned with a laugh, the
second day of their stay in New York.

"I jest natchally looks in de jewelery store windows," replied
Eradicate with a grin on his honest black face. "I looks at all de
gold ornaments, an' I tries t' figger out how much better mah golden
images am gwine t' be."

"But don't you go in, and ask what a gold image the size of a man
would be worth!" cautioned Tom. "The jeweler might think you were
crazy, and he might suspect something."

"No, Massa Tom, I won't do nuffin laik dat," promised Eradicate.
"But, Massa Tom, how much DOES yo' 'spect a image laik dat WOULD be
worth?"

"Haven't the least idea, Rad. Enough, though, to make you rich for
the rest of your life."

"Good land a' massy!" gasped Eradicate, and he spent several hours
trying to do sums in arithmetic on scraps of paper.

"Hurrah!" cried Tom, when, on the morning of the third day of their
enforced stay in New York, a letter was sent up to his room by the
hotel clerk.

"What's up?" asked Ned. "I didn't know that you sent Mary word that
you were here."

"I didn't, you old scout!" cried Tom. "This is from the steamship
company, saying that the steamer Maderia, on which we have taken
passage for Mexico, will sail to-night at high tide. That's the
stuff! At last we'll really get on our way."

"Bless my notebook!" cried Mr. Damon. "I hoped we'd stay at least
another day here. I haven't seen half enough in the museums."

"You'll see stranger things than in any museum when we get to the
underground city," predicted Tom. "Come on, Ned, we'll take in a
moving picture show, have our last lunch in the big city, and then
go aboard."

So impatient were the travelers to go on board the steamer that they
arrived several hours before the time set for sailing. Many others
did the same thing, however, as supper was to be served on the
Maderia.

Though it was within a few hours of leaving time there seemed so
much to be done, such a lot of cargo to stow away, and so much coal
to put into the bunkers, that Tom and the others might well be
excused for worrying about whether or not they really would sail.

Big trucks drawn by powerful horses thundered down the long dock.
Immense automobiles laden with boxes, barrels and bales puffed to
the loading gangways. There was the puffing and whistling of the
donkey engines as they hoisted into the big holds the goods intended
for export.

At the side of the steamer were grimy coal barges, into which was
dipped an endless chain of buckets carrying the coal to the bunkers.
Stevadores were running here and there, orders and counter-orders
were being given, and the confusion must have been maddening to any
one not accustomed to it.

"Bless my walking stick!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "We'll never get off
to-night, I'm positive."

"Dat's right," agreed Eradicate. "Look at all dat coal dey's got to
load in."

"Oh, they knew how to hustle at the last minute," said Tom, and so
it proved. Gradually the loading was finished. The coal barges were
emptied and towed away. Truck after truck departed from the dock
empty, having left its load in the interior of the steamer. One
donkey engine after another ceased to puff, and the littered decks
were cleared.

"Let's watch the late-comers get aboard," suggested Ned to Tom, when
they had arranged things in their stateroom. The two boys and Mr.
Damon had a large one to themselves and Eradicate had been assigned
a small one not far from them.

"That'll make the time pass until supper is ready," agreed the young
inventor, so they took their station near the main gangway and
watched the passengers hurrying up. There were many going to make
the trip to Mexico it seemed, and later the boys learned that a
tourist agency had engaged passage for a number of its patrons.

"That fat man will never get up the slope unless some one pushes
him," remarked Ned, pointing to a very fleshy individual who was
struggling up the steep gangplank, carrying a heavy valise. For the
tide was almost at flood and the deck of the steamer was much
elevated. Indeed it seemed at one moment as if the heavy-weight
passenger would slide backward instead of getting aboard.

"Go give him a hand, Rad," suggested Tom, and the colored man
obligingly relieved the fat man of his grip, thereby enabling him to
give all his attention to getting up the plank.

And it was this simple act on the part of Rad that was the cause of
an uneasy suspicion coming to Tom and Ned. For, as Eradicate
hastened to help the stout passenger, two others behind him, a man
and a boy, started preciptably at the sight of the colored helper.
So confused were they that it was noticed by Ned and his chum.

"Look at that!" said Ned in a low voice, their attention drawn from
the fat man to the man and youth immediately behind him. "You'd
think they were afraid of meeting Rad."

"That's right," agreed Tom, for the man and youth had halted, and
seemed about to turn back, Then the man, with a quick gesture,
tossed a steamer rug he was carrying over his shoulder up so that it
hid his face. At the same time the lad with him, evidently in
obedience to some command, pulled his cap well down over his face
and turned up the collar of a light overcoat he was wearing. He also
seemed to shrink down, almost as if he were deformed.

"Say!" began Ned in wondering tones, "Tom, doesn't that look like--"

"Andy Foger and his father!" burst out the young inventor in a horse
whisper. "Ned, do you think it's possible?"

"Hardly, and yet--"

Ned paused in his answer to look more closely at the two who had
aroused the suspicions of himself and Tom. But they had now crowded
so close up behind the fat man whom Eradicate was assisting up the
plank, that he partly hid them from sight, and the action of the two
in covering their faces further aided them in disguising themselves,
if such was their intention.

"Oh, it can't be!" declared Tom. "If they were going to follow us
they wouldn't dare go on the same steamer. It must be some one else.
But it sure did look like Andy at first."

"That's what I say," came from Ned. "But we can easily find out."

"How?"

"Ask the purser to show us the passenger list. Even if they are down
under some other names he'd know the Fogers if we described them to
him."

"That's right, we'll do it."

By this time the fat man, who was being assisted by Eradicate had
reached the top of the gang plank. He must have been expected, for
several friends rushed to greet him, and for a moment there was a
confusing little throng at the place where the passengers came
abroad. Tom and Ned hurried up, intent on getting a closer view of
the man and youth who seemed so anxious to escape observation.

But several persons got in their way, and the two mysterious ones
taking advantage of the confusion, slipped down a companionway to
their stateroom, so that when our two lads managed to extricate
themselves from the throng around the fat man, who insisted on
thanking them for allowing Eradicate to help him, it was too late to
effect any identification, at least for the time being.

"But we'll go to the purser," said Tom. "If Andy and his father are
on this steamer we want to know it."

"That's right," agreed Ned.

Just then there was the usual cry:

"All ashore that's going ashore! Last warning!"

A bell rang, there was a hoarse whistle, the rattle of the gangplank
being drawn in, a quiver through the whole length of the ship, and
Tom cried:

"We're off!"

"Yes," added Ned, "if Andy and his father are here it's too late to
leave them behind now!"




CHAPTER X

MYSTERIOUS PASSENGERS


Ned and Tom did not escape the usual commotion that always attends
the sailing of a large steamer. The people on the dock were waving
farewells to those on the boat, and those on the deck of the Maderia
shook their handkerchiefs, their steamer rugs, their hands,
umbrellas--in short anything to indicate their feelings. It was
getting dark, but big electric lights made the dock and the
steamer's deck brilliantly aglow.

The big whistle was blowing at intervals to warn other craft that
the steamer was coming out of her slip. Fussy little tugs were
pushing their blunt noses against the sides of the Maderia to help
her and, in brief, there was not a little excitement.

"Bless my steamer chair!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "We're really off at
last! And now for the land of--"

"Hush!" exclaimed Tom, who stood near the odd gentleman. "You're
forgetting. Some one might hear you."

"That's so, Tom. Bless my soul! I'll keep quiet after this."

"Mah golly!" gasped Eradicate as he saw the open water between the
ship and the deck, "I can't git back now if I wanter--but I doan't
wanter. I hope yo' father takes good care ob Boomerang, Massa Tom."

"Oh, I guess he will. But come on, Ned, we'll go to the purser's
office now."

"What for? Is something wrong?" asked Mr. Damon.

"No, we just want to see if--er--if some friends of ours are on
board," replied the young inventor, with a quick glance at his
chum.

"Very well," assented Mr. Damon. "I'll wait for you on deck here.
It's quite interesting to watch the sights of the harbor."

As for these same sights they possessed no attractions for the two
lads at present. They were too intent on learning whether or not
their suspicions regarding the Fogers were correct.

"Now if they are on board," said Tom, as they made their way to the
purser's office, "it only means one thing--that they're following us
to get at the secret of the city of gold," and Tom whispered this
last, even though there seemed to be no one within hearing, for
nearly all the passengers were up on deck.

"That's right," agreed Ned. "Of course there's a bare chance, if
those two were the Fogers, that Mr. Foger is going off to try and
make another fortune. But more than likely they're on our trail,
Tom."

"If it's them--yes."

"Hum, Foger--no, I don't think I have any passengers of that name,"
said the purser slowly, when Tom had put the question. "Let's see,
Farday, Fenton, Figaro, Flannigan, Ford, Foraham, Fredericks--those
are all the names in the 'Fs'. No Fogers among them. Why, are you
looking for some friends of yours, boys?"

"Not exactly friends," replied Tom slowly, "but we know them, and we
thought we saw them come aboard, so we wanted to make sure."

"They might be under some other name," suggested Ned.

"Yes, that is sometimes done," admitted the purser with a quick
glance at the two lads, "It's done when a criminal wants to throw
the police off his track, or, occasionally, when a celebrated person
wants to avoid the newspaper reporters. But I hardly think that--"

"Oh, I don't believe they'd do it," said Tom quickly. He saw at once
that the suspicions of the purser had been aroused, and the official
might set on foot inquiries that would be distasteful to the two
lads and Mr. Damon. Then, too, if the Fogers were on board under
some other name, they would hear of the questions that had been put
regarding them, and if they were on a legitimate errand they could
make it unpleasant for Tom.

"I don't believe they'd do anything like that," the young inventor
repeated.

"Well, you can look over the passenger list soon," said the purser.
"I'm going to post it in the main saloon. But perhaps if you
described the persons you are looking for I could help you out. I
have met nearly all the passengers already."

"Mr. Foger is a big man, with a florid complexion and he has a heavy
brown moustache," said Ned.

"And Andy has red hair, and he squints," added Tom.

"No such persons on board," declared the official positively. "It's
true we have several persons who squint, but no one with red hair--I'm
sure of it."

"Then they're not here," declared Ned. "No, we must have been
mistaken," agreed Tom, and there was relief in his tone. It was bad
enough to have to search for a hidden city of gold, and perhaps have
to deal with the head-hunters, without having to fight off another
enemy from their trail.

"Much obliged," said the young inventor to the purser, and then the
two lads went back on deck.

A little later supper was served in the big dining saloon, and the
boys and Mr. Damon were glad of it, for they were hungry. Eradicate
ate with a party of colored persons whose acquaintance he had
quickly made. It was a gay gathering in which Tom and Ned found
themselves, for though they had traveled much, generally it had been
in one of Tom's airships, or big autos, and this dining on a big
ship was rather a novelty to them.

The food was good, the service prompt, and Tom found himself
possessed of a very good appetite. He glanced across the table and
noted that opposite him and Ned, and a little way down the board,
were two vacant chairs.

"Can't be that anyone is seasick already." he remarked to his chum.

"I shouldn't think so, for we haven't any more motion than a
ferryboat. But some persons are very soon made ill on the water."

"If they're beginning this early, what will happen when we get out
where it's real rough?" Tom wanted to know.

"They'll sure be in for it," agreed Ned, and a glance around the
dining saloon showed that those two vacant chairs were the only
ones.

Somehow Tom felt a vague sense of uneasiness--as if something was
about to happen. In a way he connected it with the suspicion that
the Fogers were aboard, and with his subsequent discovery that their
names were not on the passenger list. Then, with another thought in
mind, he looked about to see if he could pick out the man and youth
who, on coming up the gang plank, had been taken by both Tom and Ned
to be their enemies. No one looking like either was to be seen, and
Tom's mind at once went back to the vacant seats at the table.

"By Jove, Ned!" he exclaimed. "I believe I have it!"

"Have what--a fit of seasickness?"

"No, but these empty seats--the persons we saw you know--they belong
there and they're afraid to come out and be seen."

"Why should they be--if they're not the Fogers. I guess you've got
another think coming."

"Well, I'm sure there's something mysterious about those two--the
way they hid their faces as they came on board--not appearing at
supper--I'm going to keep my eyes open."

"All right, go as far as you like and I'm with you. Just now you may
pass me the powdered sugar. I want some on this pie."

Tom laughed at Ned's matter-of-fact indifference, but when the young
inventor turned in to his berth that night he could not stop
thinking of the empty seats--the two mysterious passengers--and the
two Fogers. They got all jumbled in his head and made his sleep
restless.

Morning saw the Maderia well out to sea, and, as there was quite a
swell on, the vessel rolled and pitched to an uncomfortable degree.
This did not bother Tom and Ned, who were used to sudden changes of
equilibrium from their voyages in the air. Nor did Mr. Damon suffer.
In fact he was feeling fine and went about on deck like an old salt,
blessing so many new things that he had many of the passengers
amused.

Poor Eradicate did suffer though. He was very seasick, and kept to
his berth most of the time, while some of his new friends did what
they could for him.

Tom had in mind a plan whereby he might solve the identity of the
mysterious passengers. He was going to do it by a process of
elimination--that is he would carefully note all on board until he
had fixed on the two who had aroused his suspicions. And he had to
do this because so many of the passengers looked very different, now
that they had on their ship "togs," than when first coming on board.

But the rough weather of the first day prevented the lad from
carrying out his plan, as many of the travelers kept to their
staterooms, and there were a score of vacant places at the tables.

The next day, however, was fine, and with the sea like the
proverbial mill pond, it seemed that everyone was out on deck. Yet
when meal time came there were these same two vacant seats.

"What do you think of it, Ned?" asked Tom, with a puzzled air.

"I don't know what to think, Tom. It sure is queer that these
two--whoever they are--don't ever come to meals. They can't be seasick
on a day like this, and they certainly weren't the first night."

"That's right. I'm going to ask one of the stewards where their
stateroom is, and why they don't come out."

"You may get into trouble."

"Oh, I guess not. If I do I can stand it. I want to solve this
mystery." Tom did put his question to one of the dining saloon
stewards and it created no suspicions.

"Ah, yes, I guess you must mean Mr. Wilson and his son." spoke the
steward when he had referred to a list that corresponded with the
numbers of the vacant places at the table. "They have their meals
served in their stateroom."

"Why?" asked Tom, "are they ill?"

"I really couldn't say, sir. They prefer it that way, and the
captain consented to it from the first."

"But I should think they'd want to get out for a breath of air," put
in Ned. "I can't stay below decks very long."

"They may come out at night," suggested the steward. "Some of our
travelers think they are less likely to be seasick if they come out
at night. They don't see the motion of the waves then."

"Guess that's it," agreed Tom with a wink at Ned. "Much obliged.
Glad we're not seasick," and he linked his arm in that of his chum's
and marched him off.

"Why the wink?" asked Ned, when they were out of earshot of the
steward.

"That was to tip you off to say nothing more. I've got a plan I'm
going to work."

"What is it?"

"Well, we know who the mysterious ones are, anyhow--at least we know
their names--Wilson."

"It may not be the right one."

"That doesn't make any difference. I can find out their stateroom by
looking at the passenger list."

"What good will that do."

"Lots. I'm going to keep a watch on that stateroom until I get a
good look at the people in it. And if they only come out at night,
which it begins to look like, I'm going to do some night watching.
This thing has got to be settled, Ned. Our trip to the city of gold
is too important to risk having a mysterious couple on our trail--when
that same couple may be the Fogers. I'm going to do some detective
work, Ned!"




CHAPTER XI

THE MIDNIGHT ALARM


"Whew! What a lot of 'em!"

"Bless my fish line! It's a big school!"

"Look how they turn over and over, and leap from the water."

"By golly, dere is suttinly some fish dere!"

These were the exclamations made by our four friends a few days
later, as they leaned over the rail of the Maderia and watched a big
school of porpoises gamboling about in the warm waters of the gulf
stream. It was the second porpoise school the ship had come up with
on the voyage, and this was a much larger one than the first, so
that the passengers crowded up to see the somewhat novel sight.

"If they were only good eating now, we might try for a few,"
observed Ned.

"Some folks eat them, but they're too oily for me," observed a
gentleman who had struck up an acquaintance with the boys and Mr.
Damon. "Their skin makes excellent shoe laces though, their oil is
used for delicate machinery--especially some that comes from around
the head, at least so I have heard."

"Wow! Did you see that?" cried Tom, as one large porpoise leaped
clear of the water, turned over several times and fell back with a
loud splash. "That was the biggest leap yet."

"And there goes another," added Ned.

"Say, this ought to bring those two mysterious passengers out of
their room," observed Tom to his chum in a low voice. "Nearly
everyone else seems to be on deck."

"You haven't been able to catch a glimpse of them; eh Tom?"

"Not a peak. I stayed up several nights, as you know, and paced the
deck, but they didn't stir out. Or, if they did, it must have been
toward morning after I turned in. I can't understand it. They must
be either criminals, afraid of being seen, or they ARE the Fogers,
and they know we're on to their game."

"It looks as if it might be one or the other, Tom. But if they are
criminals we don't have to worry about 'em. They don't concern us."

"No, that's right. Split mackerel! Look at that fellow jump. He's
got 'em all beat!" and Tom excitedly, pointed at the porpoises, the
whole school of which was swimming but a short distance from the
steamer.

"Yes, a lot of them are jumping now. I wonder--"

"Look! Look!" cried the man who had been talking to Mr. Damon.
"Something out of the ordinary is going on among those porpoises. I
never saw them leap out of the water like that before."

"Sharks! It's sharks!" cried a sailor who came running along the
deck. "A school of sharks are after the porpoises!" "I believe he's
right," added Mr. Sander, the gentleman with Mr. Damon. "See,
there's the ugly snout of one now. He made a bite for that big
porpoise but missed."

"Bless my meat axe!" cried the odd man. "So he did. Say, boys, this
is worth seeing. There'll be a big fight in a minute."

"Not much of a fight," remarked Mr. Sander. "The porpoise isn't
built for fighting. They're trying to get away from the sharks by
leaping up."

"Why don't they dive, and so get away?" asked Ned.

"The sharks are too good at diving," went on Mr. Sander. "The
porpoises couldn't escape that way. Their only hope is that
something will scare the sharks away, otherwise they'll kill until
their appetites are satisfied, and that isn't going to be very soon
I'm afraid."

"Look! Look!" cried Ned. "A shark leaped half way out of the water
then."

"Yes, I saw it," called Tom.

There was now considerable excitement on deck. Nearly all the
passengers, many of the crew and several of the officers were
watching the strange sight. The porpoises were frantically tumbling,
turning and leaping to get away from their voracious enemies.

"Oh, if I only had my electric rifle!" cried Tom. "I'd make some of
those ugly sharks feel sick!"

"Bless my cartridge belt!" cried Mr. Damon. "That would be a good
idea. The porpoises are such harmless creatures. It's a shame to see
them attacked so."

For the activity of the sharks had now redoubled, and they were
darting here and there amid the school of porpoises biting with
their cruel jaws. The other fish were frantically leaping and
tumbling, but the strange part of it was that the schools of sharks
and porpoises kept about the same distance ahead of the ship, so
that the passengers had an excellent view of the novel and thrilling
sight.

"Rifle!" said Mr. Sander, catching at the word. "I fancy the captain
may have some. He's quite a friend of mine, I'll speak to him."

"Get me one, too, if you please," called Ned as the gentleman
hurried away.

"And I'll also try my luck at potting a shark. Bless my gunpowder if
I won't!" said Mr. Damon.

The captain did have several rifles in his stateroom, and he loaned
them to Mr. Sander. They were magazine weapons, firing sixteen shots
each, but they were not of as high power as those Tom had packed
away.

"Now we'll make those sharks sing a different tune, if sharks sing!"
cried the young inventor.

"Yes, we're coming to the rescue of the porpoises!" added Ned.

The passengers crowded up to witness the marksmanship, and soon the
lads and Mr. Damon were at it.

It was no easy matter to hit a shark, as the big, ugly fish were
only seen for a moment in their mad rushes after the porpoises, but
both Tom and Ned were good shots and they made the bullets tell.

"There, I hit one big fellow!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my bull's
eye, but I plugged him right in the mouth, I think."

"I hope you knocked out some of his teeth," cried Ned.

They fired rapidly, and while they probably hit some of the innocent
porpoises in their haste, yet they accomplished what they had set
out to do--scare off the sharks. In a little while the "tigers of
the sea" as some one has aptly called them, disappeared.

"That's the stuff!" cried Mr. Damon. "Now we can watch the porpoises
at play."

But they did not have that sight to interest them very long. For, as
suddenly as the gamboling fish had appeared, they sank from sight--all
but a few dead ones that the sharks had left floating on the calm
surface of the ocean. Probably the timid fish had taken some alarm
from the depths into which they sank.

"Well, that was some excitement while it lasted," remarked Tom. as
he and Ned took the rifles back to the captain.

"But it didn't bring out the mysterious passengers," added Ned. Tom
shook his head and on their return to deck he purposely went out of
his way to go past Stateroom No. 27, where the "Wilsons" were
quartered. The door was closed and a momentary pause to listen
brought our hero no clew, for all was silent in the room.

"It's too much for me," he murmured, shaking his head and he
rejoined his chum.

Several more days passed, for the Maderia was a slow boat, and could
not make good time to Mexico. However, our travelers were in no
haste, and they fully enjoyed the voyage.

Try as Tom did to get a glimpse of the mysterious passengers he was
unsuccessful. He spent many hours in a night, and early morning
vigil, only to have to do his sleeping next day, and it resulted in
nothing.

"I guess they want to get on Mexican soil before any one sees their
faces," spoke Ned, and Tom was inclined to agree with his chum.

They awoke one morning to find the sea tempestuous. The ship tossed
and rolled amid the billows, and the captain said they had run into
the tail end of a gulf hurricane.

"Two days more and we'll be in port," he added, "and I'm sorry the
voyage had to be marred even by this blow."

For it did blow, and, though it was not a dangerous storm, yet many
passengers kept below.

"I'm afraid this settles it," remarked Tom that night, when the ship
was still pitching and tossing. "They won't come out now, and this
is likely to keep up until we get to port. Well, I can't help it."

But fate was on the verge of aiding Tom in an unexpected way. Nearly
every one turned in early that night for it was no pleasure to sit
in the saloons, and to lie in one's berth made it easier to stand
the rolling of the vessel.

Tom and Ned, together with Mr. Damon, had fallen into slumber in
spite of the storm, when, just as eight bells announced midnight
there was a sudden jar throughout the whole ship.

The Maderia quivered from stem to stern, seemed to hesitate a moment
as though she had been brought to a sudden stop, and then plowed on,
only to bring up against some obstruction again, with that same
sickening jar throughout her length.

"Bless my soul! What's that?" cried Mr. Damon, springing from his
berth.

"Something has happened!" added Tom, as he reached out and switched
on the electric lights.

"We hit something!" declared Ned.

The ship was now almost stopped and she was rolling from side to
side.

Up on deck could be heard confused shouts and the running to and fro
of many feet. The jangling of bells sounded--hoarse orders were
shouted--and there arose a subdued hubbub in the interior of the
ship.

"Something sure is wrong!" cried Tom. "We'd better get our clothes
on and get on deck! Come on, Ned and Mr. Damon! Grab life
preservers!"




CHAPTER XII

INTO THE UNKNOWN


"Bless my overshoes! I hope we're not sinking!" cried Mr. Damon, as
he struggled into some of his clothes, an example followed by Ned
and Tom.

"This boat has water-tight compartments, and if it does sink it
won't do it in a hurry," commented Tom.

"I don't care to have it do it at all," declared Ned, who found that
he had started to get into his trousers hindside before and he had
to change them. "Think of all our baggage and supplies and the
balloon on board." For the travelers had shipped their things by the
same steamer as that on which they sailed.

"Well, let's get out and learn the worst," cried Tom.

He was the first to leave the stateroom, and as he rushed along the
passages which were now brilliant with light he saw other half-clad
passengers bent on the same errand as himself, to get on deck and
learn what had happened.

"Wait, Tom!" called Ned.

"Come along, I'm just ahead of you," yelled his chum from around a
corner. "I'm going to see if Eradicate is up. He's an awful heavy
sleeper."

"Bless my feather bed! That shock was enough to awaken anyone!"
commented Mr. Damon, as he followed Ned, who was running to catch up
to Tom.

Suddenly a thought came to our hero. The mysterious passengers in
Stateroom No. 27! Surely this midnight alarm would bring them out,
and he might have a chance to see who they were.

Tom thought quickly. He could take a turn, go through a short
passage, and run past the room of the mysterious passengers getting
on deck as quickly as if he went the usual way.

"I'll go look after Rad!" Tom shouted to Ned. "You go up on deck,
and I'll join you."

Eradicate's stateroom was on his way, after he had passed No. 27.
Tom at once put his plan into execution. As he ran on, the confusion
on deck seemed to increase, but the lad noted that the vessel did
not pitch and roll so much, and she seemed to be on an even keel,
and in no immediate danger of going down.

As Tom neared Stateroom No. 27 he heard voices coming from it,
voices that sent a thrill through him, for he was sure he had heard
them before.

"Where are the life preservers? Oh, I KNOW we'll be drowned! I wish
I'd never come on this trip! Look out, those are my pants you're
putting on! Oh, where is my collar? Hand me my coat! Look out,
you're stepping on my fingers!"

These were the confused and alarmed cries that Tom heard. He paused
for a moment opposite the door, and then it was suddenly flung open.
The lights were glaring brightly inside and a strange sight met the
gaze of the young inventor.

There stood Mr. Foger and beside him--half dressed--was his son--Andy!
Tom gasped. So did Andy and Mr. Foger, for they had both recognized
our hero.

But how Mr. Foger had changed! His moustache was shaved off, though
in spite of this Tom knew him. And Andy! No longer was his hair red,
for it had been dyed a deep black and glasses over his eyes
concealed their squint. No wonder the purser had not recognized them
by the descriptions Tom and Ned had given.

"Andy Foger!" gasped Tom.

"Tom--it's Tom Swift, father!" stammered the bully.

"Close the door!" sharply ordered Mr. Foger, though he and his son
had been about to rush out.

"I won't do it!" cried Andy. "The ship is sinking and I'm not going
to be drowned down here."

"So it was you--after all," went on Tom. "What are you doing here?"

"None of your business!" snapped Andy. "Get out of my way, I'm going
on deck."

Tom realized that it was not the proper time to hold a conversation,
with a possibly sinking ship under him. He looked at Mr. Foger, and
many thoughts shot through his mind. Why were they on board? Had it
anything to do with the city of gold? Had Andy overheard the talk?
Or was Mr. Foger merely looking for a new venture whereby to
retrieve his lost fortune.

Tom could not answer. The bully's father glared at our hero and
then, slipping on a coat, he made a dash for the door.

"Get out of my way!" he shouted, and Tom stood aside.

Andy was already racing for the deck, and as the noise and confusion
seemed to increase rather than diminish, Tom concluded that his
wisest move would be to get out and see what all the excitement was
about.

He stopped on his way to arouse Eradicate but found that he and all
the colored persons had left their staterooms. A few seconds later
Tom was on deck.

"It's all right, now! It's all right!" several officers were
calling. "There is no danger. Go back to your staterooms. The danger
is all over."

"Is the ship sinking?"

"What happened?"

"Are we on fire?"

"Are you sure there's no danger?"

These were only a few of the questions that were flying about, and
the officers answered them as best they could.

"We hit a derelict, or some bit of wreckage," explained the first
mate, when he could command silence. "There is a slight hole below
the water-line, but the bulkheads have been closed, and there is not
the slightest danger."

"Are we going to turn back for New York?" asked one woman.

"No, certainly not. We're going right on as soon as a slight break
to one of the engines can be repaired. We are in no danger. Only a
little water came in before the automatic bulkheads were shut. We
haven't even a list to one side. Now please clear the decks and go
back to bed."

It took more urging, but finally the passengers began to disperse.
Tom found Ned and Mr. Damon, who were looking for him.

"Bless my life preserver!" cried the odd man. "I thought surely this
was my last voyage, Tom!"

"So did I," added Ned. "What's the matter, Tom, you look as though
you'd seen a ghost."

"I have--pretty near. The Fogers are on board."

"No! You don't mean it!"

"It's a fact. I just saw them. They are the mysterious passengers."
And Tom related his experience.

"Where are they now?" demanded Ned, looking about the deck.

"Gone below again, I suppose. Though I don't see what object they
can have in concealing their identity any longer."

"Me either. Well, that surely is a queer go."

"Bless my hot cross buns! I should say so!" commented Mr. Damon when
he heard about it. "What are you going to do, Tom?"

"Nothing. I can't. They have a right on board. But if they try to
follow us--well, I'll act then," and Tom shut his jaws grimly.

Our three friends went back to their state-room, and Eradicate also
retired. The excitement was passing, and soon the ship was under way
again, the sudden shock having caused slight damage to one of the
big engines. But it was soon repaired and, though the storm still
continued, the ship made her way well through the waves.

A stout bow, water-tight compartments, and the fact (learned later)
that she had struck the derelict a glancing blow, had combined to
save the Maderia.

There were many curious ones who looked over the side next morning
to see the gaping hole in the bow. A canvas had been rigged over it,
however, to keep out the waves as much as possible, so little could
be viewed. Then the thoughts of landing occupied the minds of all,
and the accident was nearly forgotten. For it was announced that
they would dock early the next morning.

In spite of the fact that their presence on board was known to Tom
and his friends, the Fogers still kept to their stateroom, not even
appearing at meals. Tom wondered what their object could be, but
could not guess.

"Well, here we are at last--in Mexico," exclaimed Ned the next
morning, when, the Maderia having docked, allowed the passengers to
disembark, a clean bill of health having been her good luck.

"Yes, and now for a lot of work!" added Tom. "We've got to see about
getting ox teams, carts and helpers, and no end of food for our trip
into the interior."

"Bless my coffee pot! It's like old times to be going off into the
jungle or wilderness camping," said Mr. Damon.

"Did you see anything of the Fogers?" asked Ned of his chum.

"Not a thing. Guess they're in their stateroom, and they can stay
there for all of me. I'm going to get busy."

Tom and his friends went to a hotel, for they knew it would take
several days to get their expedition in shape. They looked about for
a sight of their enemies, but saw nothing of them.

It took five days to hire the ox carts, get helpers, a supply of
food and other things, and to unload the balloon and baggage from
the ship. In all this time there was no sign of the Fogers, and Tom
hoped they had gone about their own business.

Our friends had let it be known that they were going into the
interior to prospect, look for historic relics and ruins, and
generally have a sort of vacation.

"For if it is even hinted that we are after the city of gold," said
Tom, "it would be all up with us. The whole population of Mexico
would follow us. So keep mum, everyone."

They all promised, and then they lent themselves to the task of
getting things in shape for travel. Eradicate was a big help, and
his cheerful good nature often lightened their toil.

At last all was in readiness, and with a caravan of six ox carts
(for the balloon and its accessories took up much space) they
started off, the Mexican drivers cracking their long whips, and
singing their strange songs.

"Ho, for the interior!" cried Ned gaily.

"Yes, we're off into the unknown all right," added Tom grimly, "and
there's no telling when we'll get back, if we ever will, should the
head-hunters get after us."

"Bless my collar and tie! Don't talk that way. It gives me the cold
shivers!" protested Mr. Damon.




CHAPTER XIII

FOLLOWED


"Well, this is something like it!" exclaimed Ned as he sat in front
of the campfire, flourishing a sandwich in one hand, and in the
other a tin cup of coffee.

"It sure is," agreed Tom. "But I say, old man, would you just as
soon wave your coffee the other way? You're spilling it all over
me."

"Excuse me!" laughed Ned. "I'll be more careful in the future. Mr.
Damon will you have a little more of these fried beans--tortillas or
frijoles or whatever these Mexicans call 'em. They're not bad. Pass
your plate, Mr. Damon."

"Bless my eyelashes!" exclaimed the odd man. "Water, please, quick!"
and he clapped his hand over his mouth.

"What's the matter?" demanded Tom.

"Too much red pepper! I wish these Mexicans wouldn't put so much of
it in. Water!"

Mr. Damon hastily swallowed a cup of the liquid which Ned passed to
him.

"I spects dat was my fault," put in Eradicate, who did the cooking
for the three whites, while the Mexicans had their own. "I were just
a little short ob some ob dem funny fried beans, an' I took some
from ober dere," and the colored man nodded toward the Mexican
campfire. "Den I puts some red pepper in 'em, an' I done guess
somebody'd put some in afo' I done it."

"I should say they had!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, drinking more water.
"I don't see how those fellows stand it," and he looked to where the
Mexican ox drivers were eagerly devouring the highly-spiced food.

It was the second day of their trip into the interior, and they had
halted for dinner near a little stream of good water that flowed
over a grassy plain. So far their trip had been quite enjoyable. The
ox teams were fresh and made good time, the drivers were capable and
jolly, and there was plenty of food. Tom had brought along a supply
especially for himself and his friends, for they did not relish the
kind the Mexican drivers ate, though occasionally the gold-seekers
indulged in some of the native dishes.

"This is lots of fun," Ned remarked again, when Mr. Damon had been
sufficiently cooled off. "Don't you think so, Tom?"

"Indeed I do. I don't know how near we are to the place we're
looking for, nor even if we're going in the right direction, but I
like this sort of life."

"How long Massa Tom, befo' dat gold--" began Eradicate.

"Hush!" interrupted the young inventor quickly, raising a hand of
caution, and glancing toward the group of Mexicans. He hoped they
had not heard the word the colored man so carelessly used, for it
had been the agreed policy to keep the nature of their search a
secret. But at the mention of "gold" Miguel Delazes, the head ox
driver, looked up quickly, and sauntered over to where Tom and the
others were seated on the grass. This Delazes was a Mexican labor
contractor, and it was through him that Tom had hired the other men
and the ox carts.

"Ah, senors!" exclaimed Delazes as he approached, "I fear you are
going in the wrong direction to reach the gold mines. If I had known
at the start--"

"We're not looking for gold mines!" interrupted Tom quickly. He did
not like the greedy look in the eyes of Delazes, a look that flared
out at the mention of gold--a look that was crafty and full of
cunning.

"Not looking for gold mines!" the contractor repeated incredulously.
"Surely I heard some one say something about gold," and he looked at
Eradicate.

"Oh, you mustn't mind what Rad says," cried Tom laughing, and he
directed a look of caution at the colored man. "Rad is always
talking about gold; aren't you, Rad?"

"I 'spects I is, Massa Tom. I shore would laik t' find a gold mine,
dat's what I would."

"I guess that's the case with all of us," put in Ned.

"Rad, get the things packed up," directed Tom quickly. "We've had
enough to eat and I want to make a good distance before we camp for
the night." He wanted to get the colored man busy so the Mexican
would have no chance to further question him.

"Surely the senors are not going to start off again at
once--immediately!" protested Delazes. "We have not yet taken the
siesta--the noon-day sleep, and--"

"We're going to cut out the siestas on this trip," interposed Tom.
"We don't want to stay here too long. We want to find some good
ruins that we can study, and the sooner we find them the better."

"Ah, then it is but to study--to photograph ruined cities and get
relics, that the senors came to Mexico?"

Once more that look of cunning came in the Mexican's eyes.

"That's about it," answered Tom shortly. He did not want to
encourage too much familiarity on the part of the contractor. "So,
no siestas if you please, Senor Delazes. We can all siesta to-night."

"Ah, you Americanos!" exclaimed the Mexican with a shrug of his
shoulders. He stroked his shiny black moustache. "You are ever so on
the alert! Always moving. Well, be it so, we will travel on--to the
ruined city--if we can find one," and he gave Tom a look that the
latter could not quite understand.

It was hot--very hot--but Tom noticed that about a mile farther on,
the trail led into a thick jungle of trees, where it would be shady,
and make the going more comfortable.

"We'll be all right when we get there," he said to the others.

It was not with very good grace that the Mexicans got their ox teams
ready. They had not objected very much when, on the day before Tom
had insisted on starting off right after the mid-day meal, but now
when it seemed that it was going to be a settled policy to omit the
siesta, or noon sleep, there was some grumbling.

"They may make trouble for us, Tom," said in a low voice. "Maybe
you'd better give in to them."

"Not much!" exclaimed the young inventor. "If I do they'll want to
sleep all the while, and we'll never get any where. We're going to
keep on. They won't kick after the first few times, and if they try
any funny business--well, we're well armed and they aren't," and he
looked at his own rifle, and Ned's. Mr. Damon also carried one, and
Eradicate had a large revolver which he said he preferred to a gun.
Each of our white friends also carried an automatic pistol and
plenty of ammunition.

"I took care not to let the Mexicans have any guns," Tom went on.
"It isn't safe."

"I'll wager that they've got knives and revolvers tucked away
somewhere in their clothes," spoke Ned.

"Bless my tackhammer!" cried Mr. Damon. "Why do you say such
blood-curdling things Ned? You make me shiver!"

In a little while they took up the trail again, the ox carts moving
along toward the comparatively cool woods. Our friends had a cart to
themselves, one fitted with padded seats, which somewhat made up for
the absence of springs, and Eradicate was their driver. Tom had made
this arrangement so they might talk among themselves without fear of
being overheard by the Mexicans. At first Senor Delazes had
suggested that one of his own drivers pilot Tom's cart, saying:

"I know what the senors fear--that their language may be listened
to, but I assure you that this man understands no English, do you,
Josef?" he asked the man in question, using the Spanish.

The man shook his head, but a quick look passed between him and his
employer.

"Oh, I guess we'll let Rad drive," insisted Tom calmly, "it will
remind him of his mule Boomerang that he left behind."

"As the senor will," Delazes had replied with a shrug of his
shoulders, and he turned away. So it was that Tom, Ned and Mr.
Damon, in their own cart, piloted by the colored man, were in the
rear of the little cavalcade.

"Have you any idea where you are going, Tom?" asked Ned, after they
had reached the shade, when it was not such a task to talk.

"Oh, I have a good general idea," replied the young inventor. "I've
studied the map Mr. Illingway sent, and according to that the city
of--well, you know the place we're looking for--lies somewhere
between Tampico and Zacatecas, and which the plain of the ruined
temple which used to be near the ancient city of Poltec, is about a
hundred and fifty miles north of the city of Mexico. So I'm heading
for there, as near as I can tell. We ought to fetch it in about a
week at this rate."

"And what are we to do when we get there?" inquired Mr. Damon. "If
we keep on to that place where the images are to be found, with this
rascally crew of Mexicans, there won't be much gold for us." He had
spoken in low tones, though the nearest Mexican cart was some
distance ahead.

"I don't intend to take them all the way with us," said Tom. "When I
think we are somewhere near the temple plain I'm going to make the
Mexicans go into camp. Then we'll put the balloon together and we
four will go off in that. When we find what we're looking for we'll
go back, pick up the Mexicans, and make for the coast."

"If the head-hunters let us," put in Ned grimly.

"Bless my nail file! There you go again!" cried Mr. Damon.
"Positively, Ned, you get on my nerves."

"Yais, Massa Ned, an' _I_ jest wish yo' wouldn't mention dem head
gen'men no mo'," added Eradicate. "I can't drive straight when I
hears yo' say dem words, an' goodness knows dese oxes is wusser t'
drive dan my mule Boomerang."

"All right I'll keep still," agreed Ned, and then he and Tom,
together with Mr. Damon, studied the map, trying to decide whether
or not they were on the proper trail.

They made a good distance that day, and went into camp that night
near the foot of some low hills.

"It will be cooler traveling to-morrow," said Tom. "We will be up
higher, and though we'll have to go slower on account of the up
grade, it will be better for all of us."

They found the trail quite difficult the next day, as there were
several big hills to climb. It was toward evening, and they were
looking for a good place to camp for the night, when Delazes, who
was riding in the first cart, was observed to jump down and hasten
to the rear.

"I wonder what he wants?" spoke Tom, as he noted the approaching
figure.

"Probably he's going to suggest that we take a few days' vacation,"
ventured Ned. "He doesn't like work."

"Senor," began Delazes addressing Tom, who called to Eradicate to
bring his oxen to a halt, "are you aware that we are being
followed?"

"Followed? What do you mean?" cried the young inventor, looking
quickly around.

"Bless my watch chain!" gasped Mr. Damon. "Followed? By whom?" He,
too, looked around, as did Ned, but the path behind them was
deserted.

"When last we doubled on our own trail, to make the ascent of the
big hill a little easier," on the Mexican, "I saw, on the road below
us two ox carts, such as are hired out to prospectors or relic
seekers like yourself. At first I thought nothing of it. That was
early this morning. When we stopped for dinner, once more having to
double, I had another view of the trail, I saw the same two carts.
And now, when we are about to camp, the same two carts are there."

He pointed below, for the caravan was on quite an elevation now, and
down on the faint trail, which was in plain view, for it wound up
the mountain like a corkscrew, were two ox carts, moving slowly
along.

"They are the same ones," went on Delazes, "and they have been
following us all day--perhaps longer--though this is the first I
have noted them."

"Followed!" murmured Tom. "I wonder--" From his valise he took a
small but powerful telescope. In the fast-fading light he focused it
on the two ox carts. The next moment he uttered an exclamation of
anger and dismay.

"Who is it?" asked Ned, though he was almost sure what the answer
would be.

"Andy Foger and his father!" cried Tom. "I might have known they'd
follow us--to learn--" and then he stopped, for Senor Delazes was
regarding him curiously.




CHAPTER XIV

A WEARY SEARCH


"Are you sure it's them?" asked Ned.

"Bless my toothpick!" cried Mr. Damon. "It isn't possible, Tom?"

"Yes, it is," said the young inventor. "It's the Fogers all right.
Take a look for yourself, Ned."

The other lad did, and confirmed his chum's news, and then Mr. Damon
also made sure, by using the glass.

"No doubt of it," the odd man said. "But what are you going to do,
Tom?"

Our hero thought for a moment. Then, once more, he looked
steadfastly through the glass at the other carts. The occupants of
them did not appear to know that they were under observation, and at
that distance they could not have made out our friends without a
telescope. Tom ascertained that the Fogers were not using one.

"Has Senor Swift any orders?" asked Delazes. "Who are these Fogers?
Enemies of yours I take it. Why should they follow you merely to
find a ruined city, that the ruins and relics may be studied?"

"Here are the orders," spoke Tom, a bit sharply, not answering the
question. "We'll camp and have supper, and then we'll go on and make
all the distance we can after dark."

"What, travel at night?" cried the Mexican, as if in horror at the
suggestion.

"Yes; why not?" asked Tom calmly. "They can't see us after dark, and
if we can strike off on another trail we may throw them off our
track. Surely we'll travel after supper."

"But it will be night--dark--we never work after dark," protested
Delazes.

"You're going to this time," declared Tom grimly.

"But the oxen--they are not used to it."

"Nothing like getting used to a thing," went on the young inventor.
"They won't mind after a rest and a good feed. Besides, there is a
moon to-night, and it will be plenty light enough. Tell the men,
Senor Delazes."

"But they will protest. It is unheard of, and--"

"Send them to me," said Tom quickly. "There'll be double pay for
night work. Send them to me."

"Ah, that is good. Senor Swift. Double pay! I think the men will not
object," and with a greedy look in his black eyes the Mexican
contractor hastened to tell his men of the change of plans.

Tom took another look at the approaching Fogers. Their carts were
slowly crawling up the trail, and as Tom could plainly see them, he
made no doubt but that his caravan was also observed by Andy and his
father.

"I guess that's the best plan to throw them off," agreed Ned, when
they were once more underway. "But how are you going to explain to
Delazes, Tom, the reason the Fogers are following us? He'll get
suspicious, I'm afraid."

"Let him. I'm not going to explain. He can think what he likes, I
can't stop him. More than likely though, that he'll put it down to
some crazy whim of us 'Americanos.' I hope he does. We can talk
loudly, when he's around, about how we want to get historical
relics, and the Fogers are after the same thing. There have been
several expeditions down this way from rival colleges or museums
after Aztec relics, and he may think we're one of them. For the
golden images are historical relics all right," added Tom in a lower
voice.

The Mexicans made no objections to continuing on after supper, once
they learned of the double pay, and a little later they went into
camp. A turn of the trail hid the Fogers from sight, but Tom and his
friends had no doubt but what they were still following.

It was rather novel, traveling along by the light of the brilliant
moon, and the boys and Mr. Damon thoroughly enjoyed it. Orders had
been given to proceed as quietly as possible, for they did not want
the Fogers to learn of the night trip.

"They may see us," Tom had said when they were ready to start, "but
we've got to take a chance on that. If the trail divides, however,
we can lose them."

"It does separate, a little farther on," Delazes had said.

"Good!" cried Tom, "then we'll fool our rival relic hunters and our
museum will get the benefit." He said this quite loudly.

"Ah, then you want the relics for a museum?" asked the Mexican
contractor quickly.

"Yes, if they pay enough," replied Tom, and he meant it, for he had
no doubt that many museums would be glad to get specimens of the
golden images.

Just as they were about to start off Tom had swept the moonlit trail
with his night-glass, but there was no sign of the Fogers, though
they may have seen their rivals start off.

"Let her go!" ordered Tom, and they were once more underway.

It was about five miles to where the trail divided, and it was
midnight when they got there, for the going was not easy.

"Now, which way," asked Delazes, as the caravan came to a halt. "To
the left or right?"

"Let me see," mused Tom, trying to remember the map the African
missionary had sent him. "Do these roads come together farther on?"

"No, but there is a cross trail about twenty miles ahead by which
one can get from either of these trails to the other."

"Good!" cried the young inventor. "Then we'll go to the right, and
we can make our way back. But wait a minute. Send a couple of carts
on the left trail for about two miles. We'll wait here until they
come back."

"The senor is pleased to joke," remarked the Mexican quickly.

"I never was more earnest in all my life," replied Tom.

"What's the answer?" asked Ned.

"I want to fool the Fogers. If they see cart tracks on both roads
they won't know which one we took. They may hit on the right one
first shot, and again, they may go to the left until they come to
the place where our two carts turn back. In that case we'll gain a
little time."

"Good!" cried Ned. "I might have known you had a good reason, Tom."

"Send on two carts," ordered the young inventor, and now Delazes
understood the reason for the strategy. He chuckled as he ordered
two of the drivers to start off, and come back after covering a
couple of miles.

It was rather dreary waiting there at the fork of the trail, and to
beguile the time Tom ordered fires lighted and chocolate made. The
men appreciated this, and were ready to start off again when their
companions returned.

"There," announced Tom, when they were on the way once more, "I
think we've given them something to think over at any rate. Now for
a few more miles, and then we'll rest until morning."

All were glad enough when Tom decided to go into camp, and they
slept later than usual the next morning. The trail was now of such a
character that no one following them could be detected until quite
close, so it was useless to worry over what the Fogers might do.

"We'll just make the best time we can, and trust to luck," Tom said.

They traveled on for two days more, and saw nothing of the Fogers.
Sometimes they would pass through Mexican villages where they would
stop to eat, and Tom would make inquiries about the ancient city of
Poltec and the plain of the ruined temple. In every case the
Mexicans shook their heads. They had never heard of it. Long before
this Tom had ascertained that neither Delazes nor any of his men
knew the location of this plain nor had they ever heard of it.

"If there is such a place it must be far in--very far in," the
contractor had said. "You will never find it."

"Oh, yes, I will," declared Tom.

But when a week passed, and he was no nearer it than at first even
Tom began to get a little doubtful. They made inquiries at every
place they stopped, of villagers, of town authorities, and even in
some cases of the priests who obligingly went over their ancient
church records for them. But there was no trace of the temple plain,
and of course none of the city of gold.

Peasants, journeying along the road, parties of travelers, and often
little bodies of soldiers were asked about the ruined temple, but
always the answer was the same. They had never heard of it, nor of
the head-hunters either.

"Well, I'm glad of the last," said Mr. Damon, looking apprehensively
around, while Eradicate felt of his head to see if it was still fast on
his shoulders.

It was a weary search, and when two weeks had passed even Tom had to
admit that it was not as easy as it had seemed at first. As for the
Mexicans, they kept on, spurred by the offer of good wages. Delazes
watched Tom narrowly, for a sign or hint of what the party was
really after, but the young inventor and his friends guarded their
secret well.

"But I'm not going to give up!" cried Tom. "Our map may be wrong,
and likely it is, but I'm sure we're near the spot, and I'm going to
keep on. If we don't get some hint of it in a few days, though, I'll
establish a camp, go up in the air and see what I can pick out from
the balloon."

"That's the stuff!" cried Ned. "It will be a relief from these rough
ox carts."

So for the next few days they doubled and redoubled on their trail,
criss-crossing back and forth, ever hoping to get some trace of the
temple, which was near the entrance to the city of gold. In all that
time nothing was seen of the Fogers.

"We'll try the balloon to-morrow," decided Tom, as they went into
camp one night after a weary day. Every one was tired enough to
sleep soundly under the tents which were set up over the carts, in
which beds were laid. It must have been about midnight when Tom, who
felt a bit chilly (for the nights were cool in spite of the heat of
the day), got up to look at the campfire. It was almost out so he
went over to throw on some more logs.

As he did so he heard a noise as if something or somebody had leaped
down out of a tree to the ground. A moment later, before he could
toss on the sticks he had caught up, Tom was aware of two eyes of
greenish brightness staring at him in the glow of the dying fire,
and not ten feet away.




CHAPTER XV

THE GOLDEN IMAGE


For a moment the young inventor felt a cold chill run down his
spine, and, while his hair did not actually "stand up" there was a
queer sensation on his scalp as if the hairs WANTED to stand on end,
but couldn't quite manage it.

Involuntarily Tom started, and one of the sticks he held in his hand
dropped to the ground. The green eyes shifted--they came nearer, and
the lad heard a menacing growl. Then he knew it was some wild animal
that had dropped down from a tree and was now confronting him, ready
to spring on the instant.

Tom hardly knew what to do. He realized that if he moved it might
precipitate an attack on him, and he found himself dimly wondering,
as he stood there, what sort of an animal it was.

He had about come to the conclusion that it was something between a
cougar and a mountain lion, and the next thought that came to him
was a wonder whether any one else in the camp was awake, and would
come to his rescue.

He half turned his head to look, when again there came that menacing
growl, and the animal came a step nearer. Evidently every movement
Tom made aroused the beast's antagonism, and made him more eager to
come to the attack.

"I've got to keep my eyes on him," mused the lad. "I wonder if
there's any truth in the old stories that you can subdue a wild
beast with your eyes--by glaring at him. But whether that's so or
not, I've got to do it--keep looking him in the face, for that's all
I can do."

True, Tom held in his hand some light sticks, but if it came to a
fight they would be useless. His gun was back in the tent, and as
far as he could learn by listening there was not another soul in the
camp awake.

Suddenly the fire, which had almost died out, flared up, as a dying
blaze sometimes will, and in the bright glare the young inventor was
able to see what sort of beast confronted him. He saw the tawny,
yellow body, the twitching tail, the glaring eyes and the cruel
teeth all too plainly, and he made up his mind that it was some
species of the cougar family. Then the embers flared out and it was
darker than before. But it was not so dark but what Tom could still
see the glaring eyes.

"I've got to get away from him--scare him--or shoot him," the lad
decided on the instant. "I'd like to bowl him over with a bullet,
but how can I get my gun?"

He thought rapidly. The gun was in the tent back of him, near where
he had been sleeping. It was fully loaded.

"I've got to get it," reflected Tom, and then he dropped the other
sticks in his hand. Once more the beast growled and came a step
nearer--soft, stealthy steps they were, too, making no sound on the
ground.

Then Tom started to make a cautious retreat backwards, the while
keeping his eyes focused on those of the beast. He made up his mind
that he would give that "hypnotism" theory a trial, at any rate.

But at his first backward step the beast let out such a fierce
growl, and came on with such a menacing leap that Tom stood still in
very terror. The animal was now so close to him that a short jump
would hurl the beast upon the lad.

"This won't do," thought Tom. "Every time I go back one step he
comes on two, and it won't take him long to catch up to me. And
then, too, he'll be in the tent in another minute, clawing Ned or
Mr. Damon. What can I do? Oh, for a gun!"

He stood still, and this seemed to suit the animal, for it remained
quiet. But it never took its eyes off Tom, and the switching tail,
and the low growls now and then, plainly indicated that the beast
was but waiting its time to leap and give the death blow.

Then an idea came to Tom. He remembered that he had once read that
the human voice had a wonderful effect on wild animals. He would try
it.

"And I'm not going to sing him any slumber song, either," mused Tom.
"I'll start on a low tone to call for Ned, and gradually raise my
voice until I wake him up. Then I'll tell Ned to draw a bead on the
beast and plunk him while I hold his attention."

Tom lost no time in putting his plan into operation.

"Ned! Ned! Say, old man, wake up! I'm in trouble! There's a beast as
big as a lion out here. Ned! Ned! Ned!"

Tom began in a low voice, but increased his tones with each word. At
first the beast seemed uneasy, and then it stopped switching its
tail and just glared at Tom.

"Ned! I say Ned! Wake up!"

Tom listened. All was silent within the tent.

"Ned! Oh, Ned!"

Louder this time, but still silence.

"Hey, Ned! Are you ever going to wake up! Get your gun! Your gun!
Shoot this beast! Ned! Ned!"

Tom waited. It seemed as if the beast was nearer to him. He called
once more.

"Ned! Ned!" He was fairly shouting now. Surely some one must hear
him.

"What's that? What's the matter? Tom? Where are you?"

It was Ned's voice--a sleepy voice--and it came from the interior of
the tent.

"Here!" called Tom. "Out in front--by the fire--get your gun, and
get him with the first shot, or it's all up with yours truly."

"Get who with the first shot. Who are you talking about?"

"This cougar! Hurry Ned, he's creeping nearer!"

Tom heard a movement behind him. He dared not turn his head, but he
knew it was his chum. Then he heard a gasp and he knew that Ned had
seen the beast. Then all Tom could do was to wait. And it was not
easy waiting. At any moment the beast might spring, and, as far as
he was concerned it would be all over.

Nearer and nearer crept the brute. Again Tom felt that queer
sensation down his spine.

"Hurry, Ned," he whispered.

"All right," came back the reassuring answer.

There was a moment of silence.

Crack! A sliver of flame cut the darkness. There was a report that
sounded like a cannon, and it was followed by an unearthly scream.
Instinctively Tom leaped back as he saw the greenish eyes change
color.

The young inventor felt a shower of dirt thrown over him by the
claws of the dying cougar, and then he realized that he was safe. He
raced toward the tent, to be met by Ned, and the next instant the
camp was in wild commotion.

"Bless my slippers!" cried Mr. Damon. "What has happened. Tell me at
once?"

"Fo' de lob of chicken!" yelled Eradicate from a tent he had all to
himself--the cook tent.

"Santa Maria! Ten thousand confusions! What is it?" fairly screamed
Delazes.

"Are you all right, Tom?" called Ned.

"Sure. It was a good shot."

And then came explanations. Wood was thrown on the fire, and as the
Mexicans gathered around the blaze they saw, twitching in the death
throes, a big cougar, or some animal allied to it. Neither Tom nor
his friends had ever seen one just like it, and the Mexican name for
it meant nothing to them. But it was dead, and Tom was saved and the
way he grasped Ned's hand showed how grateful he was, even if he did
not say much.

Soon the excitement died out, after Tom had related his experience,
and though it was some time before he and the others got to sleep
again, they did finally, and the camp was once more quiet.

An early start was made the next day, for Tom had reconsidered his
determination to assemble the balloon and explore in that air craft,
And the reason for his reconsideration was this:

They had not gone far on their journey before they met a solitary
Mexican, and of him they asked the usual question about the plain of
the temple.

He knew nothing, as might have been expected, but he stated that
there was a large village not far distant in which dwelt many old
Mexicans.

"They might know something," he said.

"It's worth trying," decided Tom. "I'll wait until to-morrow about
the balloon. We can make the village by noon, I guess. Perhaps we
can get a clew there."

But it was nearly night when the ox carts drew into the Mexican
settlement, for there was an accident in the afternoon, one of the
vehicles breaking down.

There were fires blazing in many places in the village, which was
one of the most primitive sort, when our friends entered. They were
curiously watched as they drove through on their way to a good
camping site beyond.

And here, once more, fate stepped in to aid Tom in his search for
the city of gold.

As they were out of corn meal, and needed some for supper, Tom told
Eradicate to stop at one of the larger houses to buy some. The lad
followed the colored man into the building, which seemed to be used
by several families.

"We'll be obliged to yo' all fo' some corn meal," began Eradicate,
picking out an aged Mexican to whom he addressed his request.

"What is it?" asked the Mexican in Spanish.

Tom put the question in that language, and he was on the point of
explaining that they were travelers, when he stopped midway, and
stared at something on a rude shelf in the main room of the house.

"Look! Look, Ned!" whispered Tom.

"What is it?" asked his chum.

"On that shelf! That image! The image of gold! One just like the
drawing Mr. Illingway sent from Africa! Ned, we're on the trail at
last, for there is one of the small images from the city of gold!"
and Tom, with a hand that trembled in spite of himself, pointed at
the small, yellow figure.




CHAPTER XVI

THE MAP ON THE GOLD


Naturally, when Tom pointed at the golden image, the eyes of all the
Mexicans in the room, as well as those of the friends of the young
inventor, followed. For a moment there was silence and then the aged
Mexican, whom Eradicate had asked for corn meal, rapidly uttered
something in Spanish.

"Yes! Yes!" chorused his companions, and they followed this up, by
crying aloud when he had said something else: "No! No!" Then there
was confused talking, seemingly directed at Tom, who, though he had
lowered his hand, continued to stare at the golden image.

"What in the world are they saying?" asked Ned, who only knew a
little Spanish.

"I can't get on to all of it," explained Tom above the confusion.
"Evidently they think we've come to take the image away from them
and they are objecting."

"Offer to buy it then," suggested Ned.

"That's what I'm going to do," answered Tom, and once more
addressing the aged Mexican, who seemed to be at the head of the
household, Tom offered to purchase the relic which meant so much to
him, agreeing to pay a large sum.

This seemed to create further confusion, and one of the women of the
household hastily took down the little statute and was carrying it
into an inner room, when Miguel Delazes came up. He looked into the
open doorway, glanced about the room which was illuminated by
several rude oil lamps, saw the looks of wonder and surprise on the
faces of Tom and his companions, noted the excitement among the
Mexicans, and then he caught sight of the golden image which the
woman held.

"Ah!" exclaimed Delazes, and there was a world of meaning in his
tone. His small dark eyes glittered. They roved from the image to
Tom, and back to the little golden figure again. "Ah!" muttered the
contractor. "And so the senor has found that for what he was
searching? It IS gold after all, but such gold as never I have seen
before. So, the senor hopes to get many relics like that for his
museum? So, is it not? Ah, ha! But that is worth coming many miles
to get!"

Tom realized that if he did not act quickly Delazes might have his
secret, and once it was known that Tom was seeking the buried city
of gold, the Mexicans could never be shaken off his trail. He
decided on a bold step.

"Look here, Senor Delazes," said the young inventor. "I had no more
idea that golden image was here than you did. I would like to buy
it, in fact I offered to, but they don't seem to want to sell it. If
you can purchase it for me I'll pay YOU a good price for it."

"And doubtless the senor would like many more," suggested Delazes,
with an open sneer.

"Doubtless the senor would!" snapped Tom. "Look here, Delazes, I'm
here on business, to get all the relics I can--this kind or any
other that I may fancy. You can think we're after buried treasure if
you want to--I'm not going to take the trouble to contradict you. I
hired you and your men for a certain purpose. But if you don't want
to stay and let me and my friends run things, the sooner you tell me
so the better. But I don't want any more of your underhand remarks.
Understand?"

For a moment Delazes stared at Tom with snapping eyes, as though he
would like to have attacked him. Then, knowing that Tom and his
friends were well armed, and doubtless thinking that strategy was
better than open force he bowed, smiled in what he probably meant
for a friendly fashion, and said:

"The senor is pleased to joke. Very well, I shall believe what I
like. Meanwhile, does Senor Swift commission me to buy the image for
him?"

Tom hesitated a moment. He feared he would be no match for the
shrewd Mexican, and he wondered how much Delazes already knew. Then
he decided on keeping up his end baldly, as that had seemed to have
the best effect.

"You can have a try at buying the image after I have failed," he
said. "I'll try my hand first."

"Very well," assented the contractor. The talk had been in English,
and none of the Mexicans gave any signs of having understood it. Tom
realized that he was playing a dangerous game, for naturally Delazes
would privately tell the Mexicans to put so high a price on the
statute as to prevent Tom from getting it and then the contractor
would make his own terms.

But Tom decided that this was the only course, and he followed it.

"We'll stay here in the village for to-night," he went on. "Delazes,
you and your men can make yourselves comfortable with any friends
you may find here. We'll set up our tent as usual, after we get some
corn meal for supper. I'll talk to them about the relic to-morrow.
They seem to be afraid now."

"Very well," assented the contractor again, and then he said
something in Spanish to the aged Mexican. What it was Tom could not
catch, for Delazes spoke rapidly and seemed to use some colloquial,
or slang phrases with which our hero was not familiar. The old
Mexican assented by a nod, and then he brought out some corn meal
which Eradicate took. The woman with the golden image had gone into
an inner room.

"Bless my pocketbook!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, when he, Tom, Ned and
Eradicate were busy setting up their tent near a campfire just on
the edge of the village. "This is most unexpected. What are you
going to do, Tom?"

"I hardly know. I want to have a talk with whoever owns that image,
to learn where they got it. One thing is sure, it proves that Mr.
Illingway's information about the city of gold is correct."

"But it doesn't tell us where it is," said Ned.

"It must be somewhere around here," declared his chum. "Otherwise
the image wouldn't be here."

"Bless my gaiters, that's so!" exclaimed the odd man.

"Not necessarily," insisted Ned. "Why one of the images is away over
in Africa, and this one may have been brought hundreds of miles from
the underground city."

"I don't believe so," declared Tom. "We're somewhere in the
neighborhood of the city, according to Mr. Illingway's map, I'm
sure. That would be true, image or no image. But when you take the
little gold statue into consideration it makes me positive that I'm
near the end of the trail. I've just got to have a talk with those
people to learn where the statue came from."

"Look out for Delazes," warned Ned.

"I intend to. As soon as I can, I'm going to leave him and his men
behind and set off in the balloon. But first I want to get an idea
of where to head for. We must locate the plain on which stands the
ruined temple."

"It's getting exciting," remarked Ned. "I wish--"

"Supper am serbed in de dinin' cah!" interrupted Eradicate with a
laugh, as he imitated a Pullman porter.

"That's the best thing you could wish for," put in Tom gaily. "Come
on, we'll have a good meal, a sleep, and then we'll be ready to play
detectives again to-morrow."

They all slept soundly that night, though Tom had some idea of
staying awake to see if Delazes paid any secret visits to the house
where the golden image was kept. But he realized that the Mexican,
if he wanted to, could easily find means to outwit him, so the young
inventor decided to get all the rest he could and trust to chance to
help him out.

His first visit after breakfast was to the house of the aged
Mexican. The image was not in sight, though Tom and Ned and Mr.
Damon looked eagerly around for it. There was a curious light in the
eyes of the old man as Tom asked for the little statue of gold.
Delazes was not in evidence. Tom had to conduct the conversation in
Spanish, no particularly easy task for him, though he made out all
right.

"Will you sell the image?" he asked.

"No sell," replied the Mexican quickly.

"Will you please let me look at it?"

The Mexican hesitated a moment, called a command to some one in the
next room, and, a moment later the old woman shuffled in, bearing
the wonderful golden image. Tom could not repress a little gasp of
delight as he saw it at close range, for it was beautifully carved
out of solid, yellow gold.

The woman set it on a rude table, and the young inventor, Ned and
Mr. Damon drew near to look at the image more closely. It was the
work of a master artist. The statue was about eight inches high, and
showed a man, dressed in flowing robes, seated crosslegged on a sort
of raised pedestal. On the head was a crown, many pointed and the
face beneath it showed calm dignity like that of a superior being.
In one extended hand was a round ball, with lines on it to show the
shape of the earth, though only the two American continents
appeared. In the other hand was what might be tables of stone, a
book, or something to represent law-giving authority.

"How much?" asked Tom.

"No sell," was the monotonous answer.

"Five hundred dollars," offered our hero.

"No sell."

"One thousand dollars."

"No sell."

"Why is it so valuable to you?" Tom wanted to know.

"We have him for many years. Bad luck come if he go." Then the
Mexican went on to explain that the image had been in his family for
many generations, and that once, when it had been taken by an enemy,
death and poverty followed until the statue was recovered. He said
he would never part with it.

"Where did it come from?" asked Tom, and he cared more about this
than he did about buying the image.

"Far, far off," said the Mexican. "No man know. I no know--my father
he no know--his father's father no know. Too many years back--many
years."

He motioned to the woman to take the statue away, and Tom and his
friend realized that little more could be learned. The young
inventor stretched out his hand with an involuntary motion, and the
Mexican understood. He spoke to the woman and she handed the image
to Tom. The Mexican had recognized his desire for a moment's closer
inspection and had granted it.

"Jove! It's as heavy as lead!" exclaimed Tom. "And solid gold."

"Isn't it hollow up the middle?" asked Ned. "Look on the underside,
Tom."

His chum did so. As he turned the image over to look at the base he
had all he could do not to utter a cry of surprise. For there,
rudely scratched on the plain surface of the gold, was what was
unmistakably a map. And it was a map showing the location of the
ruined temple--the temple and the country surrounding it--the
ancient city of Poltec, and the map was plain enough so that Tom
could recognize part of the route over which they had traveled.

But, better than all, was a tiny arrow, something like the compass
mark on modern maps. And this arrow pointed straight at the ruins of
the temple, and the direction indicated was due west from the
village where our travelers now were. Tom Swift had found out what
he wanted to know.

Without a word he handed back the image and then, trying not to let
his elation show in his face, he motioned to Ned and Mr. Damon to
follow him from the house.

"Bless my necktie!" exclaimed the odd man, when they were out of
hearing distance. "What's up, Tom."

"I know the way to the ruined temple. We'll start at once," and he
told them of the map on the image.

"Who do you suppose could have made it?" asked Ned.

"Probably whoever took the image from the city of gold. He wanted to
find his way back again, or show some one, but evidently none of the
recent owners of the image understand about the map, if they know
it's there. The lines are quite faint, but it is perfectly plain."

"It's lucky I saw it. I don't have to try to buy the image now, nor
seek to learn where it came from. Anyhow, if they told me they'd
tell Delazes, and he'd be hot after us. As it is I doubt if he can
learn now. Come, we'll get ready to hit the trail again."

And they did, to the no small wonder of the contractor and his men,
who could not understand why Tom should start out without the image,
or without having learned where it came from, for Delazes had
questioned the old Mexican, and learned all that took place. But he
did not look on the base of the statue.

Due west went the cavalcade, and then a new complication arose. Tom
did not want to take the Mexicans any nearer to the plain of the
temple than possible, and he did not know how many miles it was
away. So he decided on taking a longer balloon voyage than at first
contemplated.

"We'll camp to-night at the best place we can find," he said to
Delazes, "and then I'm going on in the balloon. You and your men
will stay in camp until we come back."

"Ha! And suppose the senors do not come back with the balloon?"

"Wait a reasonable time for us, and then you can do as you wish.
I'll pay you to the end of the month and if you wait for us any
longer I have given instructions for the bank in Tampico to pay you
and your men what is right."

"Good! And the senors are going into the unknown?"

"Yes, we don't know where we'll wind up. This hunting for relics is
uncertain business. Make yourselves comfortable in camp, and wait."

"Waiting is weary business, Senor Swift. If we could come with you--"
began Delazes, with an eager look in his eyes.

"Out of the question," spoke Tom shortly. "There isn't room in the
balloon."

"Very well, senor," and with a snapping glance from his black eyes
the contractor walked away.




CHAPTER XVII

THE RUINED TEMPLE


Though Tom had his portable balloon in shape for comparatively quick
assembling it was several days, after they went into permanent camp,
before it was in condition for use.

The Mexicans were not of much help for several reasons. Some of them
were ignorant men, and were very superstitious, and would have
nothing to do with the "Air Fiend" as they called it. In consequence
Tom, Ned, Mr. Damon and Eradicate had to do most of the work. But
Tom and Ned were a host in themselves, and Mr. Damon was a great
help, though he often stopped to bless something, to the no small
astonishment of the Mexicans, one of whom innocently asked Tom if
this eccentric man was not "a sort of priest in his own country, for
he called down so many blessings?"

"Bless my pen wiper!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, when Tom had told him. "I
must break myself of that habit. Bless my--" and then he stopped
and laughed, and went on with the work of helping to install the
motor.

Another reason why some of the Mexicans were of little service was
because they were so lazy. They preferred to sit in the shade and
smoke innumerable cigarettes, or sleep. Then, too, some of them had
to go out after some small game with which that part of the country
abounded, for though there was plenty of tinned food, fresh meat was
much more appreciated.

But Tom and Ned labored long and hard, and in about a week after
making camp they had assembled the dirigible balloon in which they
hoped to set out to locate the plain of the ruined temple, and also
the entrance to the underground city of gold.

"Well, I'll start making the gas to-morrow," decided Tom, in their
tent one night, after a hard day's work. "Then we'll give the
balloon a tryout and see how she behaves in this part of the world.
The motor is all right, we're sure of that much," for they had given
the engine a test several days before.

"Which way are we going to head?" asked Ned.

"North, I think," answered Tom.

"But I thought you said that the temple was west--"

"Don't you see my game?" went on the young inventor quickly, and in
a low voice, for several times of late he had surprised some of the
Mexicans sneaking about the tent. "As soon as we start off Delazes
is going to follow us."

"Follow us?" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my shoe horn, what do you
mean?"

"I mean that he still suspects that we are after gold, and he is
going to do his best to get on our trail. Of course he can't follow
us through the air, but he'll note in what direction we start and as
soon as we are out of sight he and his men will hit the trail in the
same direction."

"What, and leave the camp?" asked Ned.

"Yes, though they'll probably skip off with some of our supplies.
That's why I'm going to take along an unusually large supply. We may
not come back to this camp at all. In fact, it won't be much use
after Delazes and his crowd clean it out and leave."

"And you really think they'll do that, Tom?" asked his chum.

"I'm almost sure of it, from the way the Mexicans have been acting
lately. Delazes has been hinting around trying to surprise me into
saying which direction we're going to take. But I've been careful.
The sight of that golden image aroused him and his men. They're
hungry for gold, and they'd do away with us in a minute if they
thought they could find what we're looking for and get it without
us. But our secret is ours yet, I'm glad to say. If only the balloon
behaves we ought soon to be in the--"

"Hark!" exclaimed Ned, holding up a warning hand. They heard a
rustling outside the tent, and one side bulged in, as if some one
was leaning against it.

"Some one's listening," whispered Ned.

Tom nodded. The next moment he drew his heavy automatic revolver and
remarked in loud tones:

"My gun needs cleaning. I'm going to empty it through the tent where
that bulge is--look out, Ned."

The bulge against the canvas disappeared as if by magic, and the
sound of some one crawling or creeping away could be heard outside.
Tom laughed.

"You see how it is," he said. "We can't even think aloud."

"Bless my collar button; who was it?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Some of Delazes's men--or himself," replied the young inventor.
"But I guess I scared him."

"Maybe it was Andy Foger," suggested Ned with a smile.

"No, I guess we've lost track of him and his father," spoke Tom.
"I've kept watch of the back trail as much as I could, and haven't
seen them following us. Of course they may pick up our trail later
and come here, and they may join forces with the Mexicans. But I
don't know that they can bother us, once we're off in the balloon."

To Tom's disappointment, the next day proved stormy, a heavy rain
falling, so it was impossible to test the balloon with the gas. The
camp was a disconsolate and dreary place, and even Eradicate,
usually so jolly, was cross and out of sorts.

For three days the rain kept up, and Tom and Ned thought they would
never see the last of it, but on the fourth morning the sun shone,
wet garments and shoes were dried out, tents were opened to the warm
wind and everyone was in better spirits. Tom and his chum at once
set about making gas for the big bag, their operations being closely
watched by the Mexicans.

As I have explained before, Tom had the secret of making a very
powerful gas from comparatively simple ingredients, and the
machinery for this was not complicated. So powerful was it that the
bag of the dirigible balloon did not need to be as large as usual, a
distinct saving in space.

In a short time the bag began to distend and then the balloon took
shape and form. The bag was of the usual cigar shape, divided into
many compartments so that the puncture of one would not empty out
all the vapor.

Below the bag was a car or cabin made of light wood. It was all
enclosed and contained besides the motor, storage tanks for
gasolene, oil and other things, sleeping berths, a tiny kitchen, a
pilot house, and a room to be used for a living apartment.
Everything was very compact, and there was not half the room there
was in some of Tom Swift's other airships. But then the party did
not expect to make long voyages.

They could take along a good supply of canned and also compressed
food, much of which was in tablet or capsule form, and of course
they would take their weapons, and ammunition.

"And I hope you'll leave room for plenty of gold," said Ned in a
whisper to Tom, as they completed arrangements for the gas test.

"I guess we can manage to store all that we can get out of the
underground city," replied his chum. "I'm going to find a place for
the big gold statue if we can manage to lift it."

"Say, we'll be millionaires all right!" exulted Ned.

Though much still remained to be done on the balloon, it was soon in
shape for an efficient test, and that afternoon Tom, Ned and Mr.
Damon went up in it to the no small wonder, fear and delight of the
Mexicans. Some, who had never seen an air craft before, fell on
their knees and prayed. Others shouted, and when Tom started the
motor, and showed how he could control his aircraft, there were
yells of amazement.

"She'll do!" cried the young inventor, as he let out some gas and
came down.

Thereupon followed busy days, stocking the airship for the trip to
discover the ruined temple. Food and supplies were put aboard, spare
garments, all their weapons and ammunition, and then Tom paid
Delazes and his men, giving them a month's wages in advance, for he
told them to wait in camp that long.

"But they won't," the young inventor predicted to Ned.

There was nothing more to be done. All that they could do, to insure
success had been completed. From now on they were in the hands of
fate.

"All aboard!" cried Tom, as he motioned for Eradicate to take his
place in the car. Mr. Damon and Ned followed, and then the young
inventor himself. He shook hands with Delazes, though he did not
like the man.

"Good bye," said Tom. "We may be back before the month is up. If we
are not, go back to Tampico."

"Si, senor," answered the contractor, bowing mockingly.

Tom turned the lever that sent more gas into the bag. The balloon
shot up. The young gold-seeker was about to throw on the motor, when
Delazes waved his hand to the little party.

"Bon voyage!" he called. "I hope you will find the city of gold!"

"Bless my soul!" cried Mr. Damon. "He knows our secret!"

"He's only guessing at it," replied Tom calmly. "He's welcome to
follow us--if he can."

Up shot the aircraft, the propellers whirling around like blades of
light. Up and up, higher and higher, and then forward, while down
below the Mexicans yelled and swung their hats.

Straight for the north Tom headed his craft, so as to throw the
eagerly watching ones off the track. He intended to circle around
and go west when out of sight.

And then the very thing Tom had predicted came to pass. The balloon
was scarcely half a mile high when, as the young inventor looked
down, he uttered a cry.

"See!" he said. "They're breaking camp to follow us."

And it was so. Riding along in one of the lightest ox carts was
Delazes, his eyes fixed on the balloon overhead, while behind him
came his followers.

"They're following us," said Tom, "but they're going to get sadly
left."

In an hour Tom knew his balloon would not be visible to the
Mexicans, and at the end of that time he pointed for the west. And
then, flying low so as to use the trees as a screen, but going at
good speed. Tom and his friends were well on their way to the city
of gold.

"We must keep a good lookout down below," said Tom, when everything
was in working order. "We don't want to fly over the plain of the
ruined temple."

"We may in the night," suggested Ned.

"No night flying this time," said his chum. "We'll only move along
daytimes. We'll camp at night."

For three days they sailed along, sometimes over vast level plains
on which grazed wild cattle, again over impenetrable jungles which
they could never have gotten through in their ox carts. They crossed
rivers and many small lakes, stopping each night on the ground, the
airship securely anchored to trees. Tom could make the lifting gas
on board so what was wasted by each descent was not missed.

One day it rained, and they did not fly, spending rather a lonely
and miserable twelve hours in the car. Another time a powerful wind
blew them many miles out of their course. But they got back on it,
and kept flying to the west.

"We must strike it soon," murmured Tom one day.

"Maybe we're too far to the north or south," suggested Ned.

"Then we'll have to beat back and forth until we get right," was
Tom's reply. "For I'm going to locate that ruined temple."

They ate breakfast and dinner high in the air, Eradicate preparing
the meals in the tiny kitchen. Ever did they keep looking downward
for a sight of a great plain, with a ruined temple in the midst of
it.

In this way a week passed, the balloon beating back and forth to the
North or South, and they were beginning to weary of the search, and
even Tom, optimistic as he was, began to think he would never find
what he sought.

It was toward the close of day, and the young inventor was looking
for a good place to land. He was flying over a range of low hills,
hoping the thick forest would soon come to an end when, as he
crossed the last of the range of small mountains, he gave a cry,
that drew the attention of Ned and Mr. Damon.

"What is it?" demanded his chum.

"Look!" said Tom. "There is the great plain!"

Ned gazed, and saw, spread out below them a vast level plateau. But
this was not all he saw, for there, about in the centre, was a mass
of something--something that showed white in the rays of the setting
sun.

"Bless my chimney!" cried Mr. Damon. "That's some sort of a
building."

"The ruined temple," said Tom softly. "We've found it at last," and
he headed the balloon for it and put on full speed.




CHAPTER XVIII

FINDING THE TUNNEL


In silence, broken only by the noise of the motor, did the gold-seekers
approach the temple. As they neared it they could see its vast
proportions, and they noted that it was made of some white stone,
something like marble. Then, too, as they drew closer, they could
see the desolate ruin into which it had fallen.

"Looks as if a dynamite explosion had knocked it all apart,"
observed Ned.

"It certainly does," agreed Mr. Damon.

"Maybe Cortez, or some of those early explorers, blew it up with
gunpowder after fighting the Aztecs, or whatever the natives were
called in those days," suggested Tom.

"Bless my bookcase! You don't mean to say you think this temple goes
back to those early days," spoke Mr. Damon.

"Yes, and probably farther," declared Tom. "It must be very ancient,
and the whole country about here is desolate. Why, the way the woods
have grown up everywhere but on this plain shows that it must be
three or four hundred years ago. There must have been a city around
the temple, probably Poltec, and yet there isn't a trace of it that
we have seen as we came along. Oh, yes, this is very ancient."

"It will be jolly fun to explore it," decided Ned. "I wish it wasn't
so near night."

"We can't do much now," decided Tom. "It will be too dark, and I
don't altogether fancy going in those old ruins except by daylight."

"Do you think any of those old Aztec priests, with their knifes of
glass, will sacrifice you on a stone altar?" asked Ned, with a
laugh.

"No, but there might be wild beasts in there," went on the young
inventor, "and I'm sure there are any number of bats. There must be
lots of nooks and corners in there where a whole army could hide.
It's an immense place."

The ruined temple certainly was large in extent, and in its glory
must have been a wonderful place. The balloon came nearer, and then
Tom let it sink to rest on the sand not far from the ancient ruin.
Out he leaped, followed by his friends, and for a moment they stood
in silent contemplation of the vast temple. Then as the last rays of
the setting sun turned the white stones to gold, Tom exclaimed:

"A good omen! I'm sure the city of gold must be near here, and in
the morning we'll begin our search for the secret tunnel that leads
to it."

"That's the stuff!" cried Ned enthusiastically.

An instant later it seemed to get dark very suddenly, as it does in
the tropics, and almost with the first shadows of night there came a
strange sound from the ruined temple.

It was a low moaning, rumbling sound, like a mighty wind, afar off,
and it sent a cold shiver down the spines of all in the little
party.

"Good land a' massy! What am dat?" moaned Eradicate, as he darted
back toward the balloon.

"Bless my looking glass!" cried Mr. Damon.

A second later the noise suddenly increased, and something black,
accompanied by a noise of rapidly beating wings rushed from one of
the immense doorways.

"Bats!" cried Tom. "Thousands of bats! I'm glad we didn't go in
after dark!" And bats they were, that had made the noise as they
rushed out on their nightly flight.

"Ugh!" shuddered Mr. Damon. "I detest the creatures! Let's get under
cover."

"Yes," agreed Tom, "we'll have supper, turn in, and be up early to
look for the tunnel. We're here at last. I'll dream of gold to-night."

Eradicate soon had a meal in preparation, though he stopped every
now and then to peer out at the bats, that still came in unbroken
flight from the old temple. Truly there must have been many
thousands of them.

Whether Tom dreamed of gold that night he did not say, but he was
the first one up in the morning, and Ned saw him hurrying over the
sands toward the temple.

"Hold on, Tom!" his chum called as he hastened to dress. "Where you
going?"

"To have a hunt for that tunnel before breakfast. I don't want to
lose any time. No telling when Delazes and his crowd may be after
us. And the Fogers, too, may strike our trail. Come on, we'll get
busy."

"Where do you think the tunnel will be?" asked Ned, when he had
caught up to Tom.

"Well, according to all that Mr. Illingway could tell us, it was
somewhere near this temple. We'll make a circle of it, and if we
don't come across it then we'll make another, and so on, increasing
the size of the circles each time, until we find what we're looking
for."

"Let's have a look inside the temple first," suggested Ned. "It must
have been a magnificent place when it was new, and with the
processions of people and priests in their golden robes."

"You ought to have been an Aztec," suggested Tom, as he headed for
one of the big doorways.

They found the interior of the temple almost as badly in ruins as
was the outside. In many places the roof had fallen in, the side
walls contained many gaping holes, and the stone floor was broken
away in many places, showing yawning, black caverns below. They saw
hundreds of bats clinging to projections, but the ugly creatures
were silent in sleep now.

"Bur-r-r-r-r!" murmured Ned. "I shouldn't like any of 'em to fall on
me."

"No, it's not a very nice place to go in," agreed Tom.

They saw that the temple consisted of two parts, or two circular
buildings, one within the other. Around the outer part were many
rooms, which had evidently formed the living apartments of the
priests. There were galleries, chambers, halls and assembly rooms.
Then the whole of the interior of the temple, under a great dome
that had mostly fallen in, consisted of a vast room, which was
probably where the worship went on. For, even without going farther
than to the edge of it, the youths could see stone altars, and many
strangely-carved figures and statues. Some had fallen over and lay
in ruins on the floor. The whole scene was one of desolation.

"Come on," invited Tom, "it's healthier and more pleasant outside.
Let's look for that tunnel."

But the lads soon realized that it was not going to be as easy to
locate this as they had hoped. They were looking for some sort of
slanting opening, going down into the earth--the entrance to the
underground city--but though they both made a complete circuit of
the temple, each at a varying distance from the outer walls, no
tunnel entrance showed.

"Breakfust! Breakfust!" called Eradicate, when Tom was about to
start on a second round.

"Let's eat," suggested Ned, "and then we four can circle around
together." Tom agreed that this would be a good plan. A little later
then, with Tom nearest the temple walls, the four began their march
around them.

Four times that morning they made the circuit, and the same number
in the afternoon, until they were nearly half a mile away from the
ruin, but no tunnel showed.

"Well, we'll have to keep at it to-morrow," suggested Tom. "It's too
soon to give up."

But the morrow brought no better success, nor did the following two
days. In fact for a week they kept up the search for the tunnel, but
did not come upon it, and they had now pretty well covered the big
plain. They found a few ruins of the ancient city of Poltec.

"Well, what about it?" asked Ned one night as they sat in the
balloon, talking it over. "What next, Tom?"

"We've got to keep at it, that's all. I think we'll go up in the
balloon, circle around over the plain at just a little elevation,
and maybe we can spot it that way."

"All right, I'm with you."

But they did not try that plan. For in the middle of the night Ned
suddenly awakened. Something had come to him in his sleep.

"Tom! Tom!" he cried. "I have it! What chumps we were!"

"What's the matter, old man?" asked Tom anxiously. "Are you sick--talking
in your sleep?"

"Sleep nothing! I've just thought of it. That tunnel entrance is
INSIDE the temple. That's the most natural place in the world for
it. I'll bet it's right in the middle of the big inner chamber,
where the priests could control it. Why didn't we look there
before?"

"That's right; why didn't we?" agreed Tom. "I believe you're right,
Ned! We'll look the first thing in the morning."

They did not wait for breakfast before trying the experiment, and
Mr. Damon and Eradicate went with Tom and Ned. It was no easy work
to make their way over the ruins to the inner auditorium. Wreckage
and ruin was all around, and they had to avoid the yawning holes on
every side. But when they got to the main, or sacrificial chamber,
as Ned insisted on calling it, they found the floor there solid. In
the centre was a great altar, but to their chagrin there was not a
sign of a tunnel opening.

"Fooled again!" said Tom bitterly.

"Maybe some of those holes outside is the entrance," suggested Mr.
Damon.

"I don't believe so," objected Tom. "They seemed to go only to the
cellar, if a temple has such a thing."

Bitterly disappointed, Tom strolled over and stood in front of the
big stone altar. It seemed that he must give up the search. Idly he
looked at the sacrificial stone. Projecting from it was a sort of a
bundle.

Tom took hold of it, and to his surprise he found that it could be
moved. Hardly knowing what he was doing, he pulled it toward him.

The next instant he uttered a cry of horror, for the immense stone
altar, with a dull rumbling, rolled back as though on wheels, and
there, over where it had stood was a hole of yawning blackness, with
a flight of stone steps leading down into it. And Tom stood so near
the edge that he almost toppled in.

"Look! Look!" he cried when he could get his gasping breath, and
step back out of danger.

"The tunnel entrance!" cried Ned. "That's what it is! You've found
it, Tom! The entrance to the city of gold at last!"




CHAPTER XIX

THE UNDERGROUND RIVER


They gathered around the opening so unexpectedly disclosed to them,
and stared down into the black depths. Beyond the first few steps of
the flight that led to they knew not where, nothing could be seen.
In his impatience Tom was about to go down.

"Bless my match box!" cried Mr. Damon. "What are you going to do,
Tom, my boy?"

"Go down there, of course! What else? I want to get to the
underground city."

"Don't!" quickly advised the odd man. "You don't know what's there.
It may be a trap, where the old Aztecs used to throw their victims.
There may be worse things than bats there. You'll need
torches--lights--and you'd better wait until the air clears. It may
have been centuries since that place was opened."

"I believe that's right," agreed Ned. "Whew; Smell it! It's as musty
as time!"

An unpleasant odor came up the tunnel entrance, and it was stifling
to stand too close. Tom lighted a match and threw it down. Almost
instantly the flame was snuffed out.

"We couldn't live down there a minute," said the young inventor.
"We've got to wait for it to clear. We'll go back to the balloon and
get some electric flash lamps. I brought along a lot of 'em, with
extra strong batteries. I thought we'd need some if we did find the
city of gold, and it looks as if we were almost there now."

Tom's plan was voted good so they hurried out of the temple, their
feet echoing and re-echoing over the stone floor. The place, ruined
and desolate as it was, had no terrors for them now. In fact they
were glad of the very loneliness, and Tom and Ned actually looked
about apprehensively as they emerged, fearing they might see a sign
of the Mexicans or the Fogers.

"Guess they can't pick up our trail," said Tom, when, he saw of what
Ned was thinking.

"No, we've got the place to ourselves. I wonder how long it will
take for the air to get fresh?"

"Not so very long, I guess. There was a good draught. There must be
some opening in the underground city by which the air is sucked in.
They'd never have only one opening to it. But we don't need to look
for the other. Come on, we'll get out the torches."

These electrical contrivances are familiar to all boys. A small
electric lamp is set in the end of a hollow tube of tin, and about
the lamp is a reflector. Dry electrical batteries are put in the tin
tube, and by means of a push button the circuit is closed,
illuminating the lamp, which gives a brilliant glow. Tom had a
special kind of lamp, with tungsten filaments, which gave a very
powerful light, and with batteries designed to last a long time. A
clip on the spring controlling the push button made it so that the
lamp could be made to give a steady glow. Thus they were well
prepared for exploring the tunnel.

It took some little time to get the flash lamps ready, and when they
were all charged and they had eaten, they went back to the opening
to see if the air had cleared. Tom tested it by dropping a match
down, and, to his delight it burned with a clear flame.

"It's all right!" he exclaimed. "The air is pure. Now to see where
we will bring up. Come on, everybody."

"Jest one minute, Massa Tom," begged Eradicate, as the young
inventor was about to descend the steps, which even the brightness
of his lamp did not disclose the end. "Is yo' gwine down dar, Massa
Tom?"

"Certainly, Rad."

"An' is yo'--'scuse me--but is yo' expectin' me fo' t' follow yo'?"

"Certainly, Rad."

"Den, all I's got t' say is dat yo' is 'spectin' too much. I ain't
gwine t' bury mahse'f alive not yit."

"But, Rad, this is where the gold images are. If you don't come down
with us you won't get any gold."

"Am dat so? No gold?" The colored man scratched his head. "Well, I
shore does want gold," he murmured. "I reckon I'd better trot along.
But one thing mo', Massa Tom."

"What is it, Rad?"

"Was yo' all aimin' t' stay down thar any length ob time? 'Case if
yo' is yo' all'd better take along a snack ob suffin' t' eat. 'Case
when I gits among gold I don't want t' come out very soon, an' we
might stay dar all day."

"Good advice, Rad," exclaimed Ned with a laugh. "I think we may get
hungry. You go back and put us up a lunch. We'll wait for you."

"Bless my napkin ring! I think you're right!" exclaimed Mr. Damon,
and Eradicate hurried back to the balloon to get some of the
condensed food.

He was soon back and then, with Tom in the lead, and with everyone
carrying an electric torch, with a spare one in reserve, and with
their weapons in readiness the party descended the stone steps.

Their footfalls echoed solemnly as they went down--down into the
unknown blackness. They kept their bright lights playing here and
there, but even these did not dispell the gloom. On every side was
stone--stone walls--stone steps. It was like going down into some
vast stretch of catacombs.

"Say, will we ever get to the bottom?" asked Ned, when they had
counted several hundred steps. "Maybe this goes down to the middle
of the earth."

"Well, ef it do I'm gwine right along!" called Eradicate. "I's gwine
t' hab one ob dem gold images or bust!"

"And I'm with you!" cried Tom. "We'll have to get to the bottom
sooner or later."

Hardly had he spoken than he came to the last step, and saw
stretching off before him a long tunnel, straight and level, lined
on both sides, and bottom, with smooth stones that gleamed like
marble.

"Now we are really in the tunnel," declared Ned. "I wonder what's at
the end?"

"The city of gold, of course," answered Tom confidently.

Eagerly they hurried on. There was a slightly musty smell to the
air, but it was fresher than might have been expected.

Suddenly Tom, who was in advance, uttered a cry. It sounded like one
of alarm, and Ned yelled:

"What's the matter?"

"Look here!" cried Tom. They hurried up to him, to find him standing
before a sort of niche in the wall. And the niche was lined with a
yellow metal that gleamed like gold, while in it was one of the
golden images, the second one they had seen, and the third they
heard about.

"We're on the trail! We're on the trail!" cried Tom.

"Heah! Let me hab dat!" cried Eradicate. "I may not git anudder,"
and he reached up for the statue.

"Let it stay until we come back," suggested Mr. Damon.

"Somebody might take it," said the colored man.

"Who?" laughed Tom. "There's not a soul here but ourselves. But take
it, if you want it, Rad," and Eradicate did so, stuffing the image,
which was only about four inches high, into his pocket.

Then they went on, and they saw several other images, though not of
gold. Several niches were lined with yellow metal, but whether it
was gold or not they could not tell. They did not want to stop, as
they were anxious to get to the underground city.

"Hark! What's that?" asked Tom, when they had gone about a mile
along the tunnel. "Don't you hear something?"

"Sounds like a roaring," agreed Ned. "Maybe it's more of the bats."

"Doesn't sound like bats," declared Tom. "It's more like a
waterfall. Come on."

They hurried forward, the strange sound increasing at every step,
until it filled the tunnel with its menacing roar.

"That's strange," said Tom in worried tones. "I hope we don't come
to a waterfall."

Suddenly the tunnel made a turn, and as they went around the curve
in the wall the sound smote on their ears with increased violence.
Tom raced forward, focusing his electric lamp down on the stone
corridor. The next instant he cried out:

"A river! It's an underground river and we can't go any further!
We're blocked!"

The others came to his side, and there, in the glare of their lamps,
they saw rushing along, between two walls of stone, a dark stream
which caused the roaring sound that had come to them. The tunnel was
cut squarely in two by the stream, which was at least thirty feet
wide, and how deep they could only guess. Swiftly it flowed on, its
roar filling the tunnel.




CHAPTER XX

THE CITY OF GOLD


"Well, I guess this is the end of it," remarked Ned ruefully, as
they stood contemplating the roaring stream by the gleam of their
electric flash lamps. "We can't go on to the city of gold unless we
swim that river, and--"

"And none of us is going to try that!" interrupted Tom sharply. "The
strongest swimmer in the world couldn't make a yard against that
current. He'd be carried down, no one knows where."

"Bless my bathing suit, yes!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "But what are we
to do? Can't we make a raft, or get a boat, or something like that?"

"Hab t' be a mighty pow'ful boat t' git across dat ribber ob
Jordan," spoke Eradicate solemnly.

"That's right," agreed Ned. "But say, Tom, don't you think we could
go back, get a lot of trees, wood and stuff and make some sort of a
bridge? It isn't so very wide--not more than thirty or forty feet.
We ought to be able to bridge it."

"I'm afraid not," and Tom shook his head. "In the first place any
trees that would be long enough are away at the far edge of the big
plain, and we'd have a hard job getting them to the temple, to say
nothing of lugging them down the tunnel. Then, too, we don't know
much about building a bridge, and with no one on the other side to
help us, we'd have our hands full. One slip and we might be all
drowned. No, I guess we've got to go back," and Tom spoke
regretfully. "It's hard luck, but we've got to give up and go back."

"Den I's pow'ful glad I got ma golden image when I did, dat's suah!"
exclaimed Eradicate. "Ef we doan't git no mo' I'll hab one. But I'll
sell it and whack up wid yo' all, Massa Tom."

"You'll do nothing of the sort, Rad!" exclaimed the young inventor.
"That image is yours, and I'm sorry we can't get more of them."

He turned aside, and after another glance at the black underground
river which flowed along so relentlessly he prepared to retrace his
steps along the tunnel.

"Say, look here!" suddenly exclaimed Ned. "I'm not so sure, after
all that we've got to turn back. I think we can go on to the city of
gold, after all."

"How do you mean?" asked Tom quickly. "Do you think we can bring the
balloon down here and float across?"

"Bless my watch chain!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "but that WOULD be a
way. I wonder--"

"No, I don't mean that way at all," went on Ned. "But it seems to me
as if this river isn't a natural one--I mean that it flows along
banks of smooth stone, just as if they were cut for it, a canal you
know."

"That's right," said Tom, as he looked at the edge of the channel of
the underground stream. "These stones are cut as cleanly as the rest
of the tunnel. Whoever built that must have made a regular channel
for this river to flow in. And it's square on the other side, too,"
he added, flashing his lamp across.

"Then don't you see," continued Ned, "that this river hasn't always
been here."

"Bless my gaiters!" gasped Mr. Damon, "what does he mean? The river
not always been here?"

"No," proceeded Tom's chum. "For the ancients couldn't have cut the
channel out of stone, or made it by cementing separate stones
together while the water was here. The channel must have been dry at
one time, and when it was finished they turned the water in it."

"But how is that going to help us?" asked Tom. "I grant you that the
river may not have been here at one time, but it's here NOW, which
makes it all the worse for us."

"But, Tom!" cried his chum, "if the river was turned aside from this
channel once it can be done again. My notion is that the ancients
could make the river flow here or not, just as they choose. Probably
they turned it into this channel to keep their enemies from crossing
to the city of gold, like the ancient moats. Now if we could only
find--"

"I see! I see!" cried Tom enthusiastically. "You mean there must be
some way of shutting off the water."

"Exactly," replied his chum. "We've got to shut that stream of water
off, or turn it into some other channel, then we can cross, and keep
on to the city of gold. And I think there must be some valve--some
lever, or handle or something similar to the one that moved the
altar-near here that does the trick. Let's all look for it."

"Bless my chopping block!" cried Mr. Damon. "That's the strangest
thing I ever heard of! But I believe you're right, Ned. We'll look
for the handle to the river," and he laughed gaily.

Every one was in better spirits, now that there seemed a way out of
the difficulty, and a moment later they were eagerly flashing their
lamps on the sides, floor and ceiling of the tunnel, to discover the
means of shutting off the water. At first they feared that, after
all, Ned's ingenious theory was not to be confirmed. The walls,
ceiling and floor were as smooth near the edge of the river as
elsewhere.

But Eradicate, who was searching as eagerly as the others, went back
a little, flashing his lamp on every square of stone. Suddenly he
uttered a cry.

"Look yeah, Massa Tom! Heah's suffin' dat looks laik a big door
knob. Maybe yo' kin push it or pull it."

They rushed to where he was standing in front of a niche similar to
the one where he had found the golden image. Sunken in the wall was
a round black stone. For a moment Tom looked at it, and then he said
solemnly:

"Well, here goes. It may shut off the water, or it may make it rise
higher and drown us all, or the whole tunnel may cave in, but I'm
going to risk it. Hold hard, everybody!"

Slowly Tom put forth his hand and pushed the knob of stone. It did
not move. Then he pulled it. The result was the same--nothing.

"Guess it doesn't work any more," he said in a low tone.

"Twist it!" cried Ned. "Twist it like a door knob."

In a flash Tom did so. For a moment no result was apparent, then,
from somewhere far off, there sounded a low rumble, above the roar
of the black stream.

"Something happened!" cried Mr. Damon.

"Back to the river!" shouted Tom, for they were some distance away
from it now. "If it's rising we may have a chance to escape."

They hurried to the edge of the stone channel, and Ned uttered a cry
of delight.

"It's going down!" he yelled, capering about. "Now we can go on!"

And, surely enough, the river was falling rapidly. It no longer
roared, and it was flowing more slowly.

"The water is shut off," remarked Tom.

"Yes, and see, there are steps which lead across the channel," spoke
Ned, pointing to them as the receding water revealed them.
"Everything is coming our way now."

In a short time the water was all out of the channel, and they could
see that it was about twenty feet deep. Truly it would have been a
formidable stream to attempt to swim over, but now it had completely
vanished, merely a few little pools of water remaining in
depressions on the bottom of the channel. There were steps leading
down to the bottom, and other steps ascending on the other side,
showing that the river was used as a barrier to further progress
along the tunnel.

"Forward!" cried Tom gaily, and they went on.

They went down into the river channel, taking care not to slip on
the wet steps, and a few seconds later they had again ascended to
the tunnel, pressing eagerly on.

Straight and true the tunnel ran through the darkness, the only
illumination being their electric flash lamps. On and on they went,
hoping every minute to reach their goal.

"Dish suah am a mighty long tunnel," remarked Eradicate. "Dey ought
t' hab a trolley line in yeah."

"Bless my punching bag!" cried Mr. Damon, "so they had! Now if those
ancients were building to-day--"

He stopped suddenly, for Tom, who was in the lead, had uttered a
cry. It was a cry of joy, there was no mistaking that, and
instinctively they all knew that he had found what he had sought.

All confirmed it a moment later, for, as they rushed forward, they
discovered Tom standing at the place where the tunnel broadened
out--broadened out into a great cave, a cave miles in extent, for all
they could tell, as their lamps, powerful as they were, only
illuminated for a comparatively short distance.

"We're here!" cried Tom. "In the city of gold at last!"

"The city of gold!" added Ned. "The underground city of gold!"

"And gold there is!" fairly shouted Mr. Damon. "See it's all over!
Look at the golden streets--even the sides of the buildings are
plated with it--and see, in that house there are even gold chairs!
Boys, there is untold wealth here!"

"An' would yo' all look at dem golden statues!" cried Eradicate,
"dey mus' be millions ob 'em! Oh, golly! Ain't I glad I comed
along!" and he rushed into one of the many houses extending along
the street of the golden city where they stood, and gathered up a
fairly large statue of gold--an image exactly similar to the one he
already had, except as to size.

"I never would have believed it possible!" gasped Tom. "It's a city
of almost solid gold. We'll be millionaires a million times over!"




CHAPTER XVI

THE BIG IMAGE


Could the light of day have penetrated to that mysterious and
ancient underground city of gold our friends might have had some
idea of its magnificence. As it was they could only view small parts
of it at a time by the illumination of their electric torches. But
even with them they saw that it was a most wonderful place.

"I don't believe there's another city like it in all the world,"
spoke Tom in awed accents, "there never was, and never will be
again. Those Aztecs must have brought all their treasures of gold
here."

"Bless my cake box! that's so," agreed Mr. Damon.

"Let's take a look around," advised Ned, "and then we can decide on
what will be best to take away."

"It won't take me long t' make up mah mind," spoke Eradicate. "I's
goin' t' take all dem images I kin find."

"I was going to say we'd have plenty of time to look about and pick
what we wanted," said Tom, "but I think perhaps we'd better hurry."

"Why?" asked Mr. Damon.

"There's no telling when Delazes and his gang may find this place,
and even the Fogers may be nearer than we think. But I believe our
best plan would be this: To take some gold now, and several of the
statues, go back to our balloon, and make some kind of big lamps, so
we can light this place up. Then, too, I think we'd better move the
balloon into the old temple. It will be safer there. Then we can
come back here, pack up as much gold as we can carry, and be off. I
don't like to think of being underground when Delazes and the Fogers
are on the surface. It might not be altogether safe for us."

"Bless my insurance policy!" cried the odd man. "Now YOU'RE giving
me the cold shivers, Tom. But I believe you're right. We must look
ahead a bit."

With all their electric flash lamps turned on, the four advanced
farther into the underground city of gold. As they went on they saw
the precious yellow metal on every side of them. It was used
lavishly, showing that to the ancients it was as common as iron or
steel is to-day. But they did not use the gold merely as common
material in the construction of buildings or objects of use.
Instead, the gold seemed to be brought into play to beautify the
city. An artistic scheme was carried out, and while it was true that
in many buildings common objects were made of gold, yet each one was
beautiful in itself.

"What a wonderful place this must have been when it was lighted up,"
spoke Tom.

"Do you think it was ever lighted up?" asked his chum.

"It must have been," declared the young inventor. "My idea is that
this city was the home of the priests of the temple, and their
friends. I don't believe the common people ever came here. Perhaps
the officers of the army, the rulers and the royal family were
admitted, but not the ordinary people. That's why it's so far
underground, and so well guarded by the river."

"Probably the priests and others collected so much gold they didn't
know what to do with it, and built this city to use it up, and, at
the same time have a safe place to store it. And they must have had
some means of lighting the place, for they couldn't go about in
darkness--they couldn't have seen the gold if they did. Yes, this
must have been wonderfully beautiful then. The priests probably came
here to study, or perhaps to carry out some of their rites. Of
course it's only guesswork, but it seems true to me."

"I believe you're right, Tom," said Mr. Damon.

As our friends walked about they saw that the city, while smaller
than they had at first supposed, was laid out with regular streets.
Each one was straight, and at certain places in the stone pavement
plates of gold were set, so that literally the streets were paved
with gold. There were houses or buildings on each side of the
streets, and most of these were open at the doors or windows, for
there was no need of heat in that buried city.

All about were the golden images such as they had seen in the
Mexican's house, and like the one in far off Africa. Some of the
images were almost life size, and others were only an inch or two
inches in height. Not a house but had half a dozen or more in
various places, and there were also the images on golden pedestals
about the streets.

"This must have been their chief god, or else a representation of
some great personage to whom they paid the highest honor," said Mr.
Damon. "Perhaps he was the reigning king or ruler, and he, himself,
might have ordered the images made out of vanity, like some men of
to-day."

The boys agreed that this was a natural theory. As for Eradicate he
was busy collecting numbers of the small golden statues, and
stuffing them in his pockets.

"Why don't you take bigger ones, and not so many of them?" asked
Tom.

"'Case as how I doan't want all mah eggs in one basket," replied the
colored man. "I kin carry mo' ob de little fellers," and he
persisted in this plan.

They found in some of the houses utensils of solid gold, but there
appeared to be no way of cooking food, and that was probably done
outside, or in the great temple. In many houses were articles
evidently used in the sacrificial rites or in worship of strange
gods. They did not stay to half examine the wonderful city of gold,
for it would have taken several days. But on Tom's advice, they took
up a considerable quantity of the precious metal in the most
convenient form to carry, including a number of the statues and art
objects and started back along the tunnel.

"We'll rig up some sort of lamps," Tom explained, "and come back to
make a thorough examination of this place. I think the scientific
men and historians will be glad to know about this city, and I'm
going to make some notes about it."

They soon came again to the place of the underground river and found
no water there. Ned wanted to turn the stream back into the channel
again, but Tom said they might not be able to work the ancient
mechanism, so they left the black knob as it was, and hurried on.
They decided that the knob must have worked some counter-balance, or
great weight that let down a gate and cut off the river from one
channel, to turn it into another.

When they emerged at the top of the steps, and came out at the
opening which had been revealed by the rolling back of the great
altar, they saw there that counter weights, delicately balanced, had
moved the big stone.

"We might close that opening," said Tom, "and then if any one SHOULD
come along and surprise us, they wouldn't know how to get to the
underground city." This was done, the altar rolling back over the
staircase.

"Now to get the balloon in the temple, make the lamps, and go back,"
suggested Tom, and, storing the gold they had secured in a safe
place in the temple, they went back to move the airship.

This was an easy matter, and soon they had floated the big gas bag
and car in through one of the immense doorways and so into the great
middle part of the temple where the big stone altar was located.

"Now we're prepared for emergencies," remarked Tom, as he looked up
at the yawning hole in the dome-like roof. "If worst comes to worst,
and we have to run, we can float right up here, out of the temple,
and skip."

"Do you think anything is going to happen?" asked Mr. Damon
anxiously.

"You never can tell," replied Tom. "Now to make some lamps. I think
I'll use gas, as I've got plenty of the chemicals."

It took two days to construct them, and Tom ingeniously made them
out of some empty tins that had contained meat and other foods. The
tins were converted into tanks, and from each one rose a short piece
of pipe that ended in a gas tip. On board the dirigible were plenty
of tools and materials. Into the cans were put certain chemicals
that generated a gas which, when lighted, gave a brilliant glow,
almost like calcium carbide.

"Now, I guess we can see to make our way about," remarked Tom, on
the morning of the third day, when they prepared to go back to the
city of gold. "And we'll take plenty of lunch along, for we may stay
until nearly night."

It did not take them long to roll back the altar, descend into the
tunnel, and reach the underground city. The river channel was now
dry, even the small pools of water in the depressions having
evaporated.

The gas torches worked to perfection, and revealed the beauties and
wonders of the city of gold to the astonished gaze of our friends.
It was even richer in the precious metal than they had at first
supposed.

"Before we do any exploring, I think we'd better take some more gold
back to the balloon," suggested Tom, "and I think I'll just move the
balloon itself more out of sight, so that if any persons come along,
and look into the temple, they won't see our airship without looking
for it."

This was done, and a considerable quantity of the precious metal,
including a number of the larger-sized statues, were stored in the
balloon car.

"We can't take much more," Tom warned his friends, "or we'll be
over-weighted."

"We've got enough now, to make us all rich," said Ned, contentedly.

"I want moah," spoke Eradicate with a grin.

They went back to the underground city and began to explore it with
a view of taking back to civilization some word of its wonders and
beauties.

"Didn't Mr. Illingway, in his letters, say something about an
immense golden statue here?" asked Ned, when they had almost
completed a circuit of the underground place.

"So he did!" exclaimed Tom. "I'd almost forgotten. It must be
somewhere in the centre of this place I should think. Let's have a
hunt for it. We can't take it with us, but maybe we could get part
of an arm or a leg to keep as a relic. Come on."

It was easy to reach the centre of the underground city, for it was
laid out on a regular plan. In a short time they were in sight of
the central plaza and, even before they reached it the glare of
their gas lamps showed them something glittering golden yellow. It
was on a tall, golden pedestal.

"There it is!" cried Ned.

"Yes, there's the big golden image all right," agreed Tom, hurrying
forward, and a moment later they stood before a most wonderful
statue.




CHAPTER XXII

TRAPPED


"Well, that sure is a big statue!" exclaimed Ned as he walked around
it.

"An' to t'ink dat it's SOLID GOLD!" cried Eradicate his eyes big
with wonder. "I suah wish I had dat all fo' mahse'f!"

"We never could carry that in the balloon," spoke Tom with a shake
of his head. "I guess we'll have to leave it here. But I would like
to take say the head. It would be worth a lot as a relic to some
museum--worth more than the value of the gold itself. I've a notion
to do it."

"How could you get the head off?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Oh, pull the statue down or overturn it, as the American patriots
did to the Bowling Green, New York, lead statue of King George III
during the Revolutionary days," answered Tom. "I think that's what
I'll do."

"I say, look here!" called Ned, who had made a circuit of the
statue. "There's some sort of an inscription here. See if you can
read it, Tom."

They went around to the front of the big, golden image where Ned
stood. On a sort of a plate, with raised letters, was an inscription
in a strange language. Part of it seemed to be the name of the
person or god whom the statue represented, and what followed none
could make out.

"It's something like the ancient Greek or Persian language,"
declared Mr. Damon, who was quite a scholar. "I can make out a word
here and there, and it seems to be a warning against disturbing the
statue, or damaging it. Probably it was put there to warn small boys
thousands of years ago, if they ever allowed small boys in this
place."

"Does it say what will be done to whoever harms the statue?" asked
Tom with a laugh.

"Probably it does, but I can't make out what it is," answered Mr.
Damon.

"Then here goes to see if we can't overturn it and hack off the
head," went on Tom. "I've got a sharp little hatchet, and gold is
very soft to cut. Over she goes."

"You never can upset that statue," declared Ned.

"Yes, I can," cried the young inventor. "I brought a long, thin, but
very strong rope with me, and I think if we all pull together we can
do it."

Tom made a noose and skillfully threw it over the head of the
statue. It settled about the neck, and then, all taking hold, and
walking away a short distance, they gave a "long pull, a strong
pull, and a pull altogether."

At first the statue would not move, but when they strained on the
rope, the image suddenly tilted, and, a moment later it tumbled to
the stone pavement. But the fall was not as heavy as should have
resulted from a statue of solid metal. There was a tinkling sound.

"That's queer!" cried Tom. "It didn't make half the fuss I
expected," and he hurried up to look at the fallen statue. "Why!" he
cried in astonishment, "it's hollow--the big golden statue is
hollow--it's a fake!"

And so it was. The big image was only a shell of gold.

"Not so valuable as it looked," commented Ned. "We could take that
with us in the balloon, if it wasn't so big."

"Well, here goes for the head, anyhow!" exclaimed Tom, and with a
few blows of his keen little axe he severed the neck. As he held it
up for all to see--rather a grewsome sight it was, too, in the
flickering light of the gas torches--there sounded throughout the
underground city, a dull, booming noise, like distant thunder.

"What's that?" cried Ned.

"Bless my bath sponge!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "I hope the water isn't
rising in the river."

"Oh land a massy!" gasped Eradicate.

Without a word Tom dropped the golden head and made for the street
that led to the tunnel. The others followed, and soon caught up to
the young inventor. On and on they ran, with only the light of their
electric flash torches to guide them. Suddenly Tom stopped.

"Go on!" cried Ned. "See what's happened! Go on!"

"I can't," answered Tom, and they all wondered at his voice.
"There's a big block of stone across the tunnel, and I can't go
another step. The stone gate has fallen. We're trapped here in the
underground city of gold!"

"Bless my soul! The tunnel closed?" cried Mr. Damon.

"Look," said Tom simply and in hopeless tones, as he flashed his
light. And there, completely filling the tunnel, was a great block
of stone, fitting from ceiling to floor and from side wall to side
wall, completely cutting off all escape.

"Trapped!" gasped Ned. "The Mexicans or Andy Foger did this."

"No, I don't think so," spoke Tom solemnly. "I think the pulling
down of the statue released this stone gate. We trapped ourselves.
Oh, why didn't I leave the statue alone!"

"That can't have done it!" declared Ned.

"We can soon tell," spoke Mr. Damon. "Let's go back and look. Later
maybe we can raise the block," and they returned to the fallen gold
statue. Tom casting back a hopeless look at the barrier that had
buried them alive in the city of gold.




 CHAPTER XXIII

"IS IT A RESCUE?"


"Can you see anything, Tom? Any lever or anything by which we can
raise the stone gate?"

It was Ned who spoke, and he addressed his chum, who was closely
examining the pedestal of the fallen golden statue.

"Bless my soul!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "we've get to find some way
out of here soon--or--"

He did not finish the sentence, but they all knew what he meant.

"Oh good landy!" cried Eradicate. "What's gwine t' become ob us?"

"Don't you see anything, Tom?" repeated Ned.

"Not a thing. Not a sign of a lever or handle by which the stone
might be raised. But wait, I'm going to get on top of the pedestal."

He managed to scramble up by stepping on and clinging to various
ornamental projections, and soon gained the flat place where the big
golden statue had rested. But he saw at a glance that it was as
smooth as a billiard table.

"Nothing here!" he called down to Ned.

"Then how do you suppose the gate closed down when the statue was
pulled off?" asked Ned.

"It must have been because of the disturbance of the equilibrium, or
due to a change of weight. Probably this pedestal rests on a
platform, like the platform of a large scale. Its weight, with that
of the statue, rested on certain concealed levers, and held the
stone up out of sight in the roof of the tunnel. When I yanked down
the statue I made the weight uneven, and the stone fell, and there
doesn't seem to be any way of putting the weight back again."

"No, we never could get the statue back on the pedestal," said Ned.
"But maybe there's some mechanism at the stone gate, or near it,
like the black knob which turned off the water. We may be able to
work that and raise the big stone slab."

"It's the only thing to try, as long as we haven't dynamite to blast
it," agreed Tom. "Come on, we'll take a look."

They went back to where the rock closed the tunnel, but a long and
frantic search failed to show the least projection, lever, handle or
any other thing, that could be moved.

"What in the world do you suppose those ancients made such a
terrible contrivance for?" Ned wanted to know.

"Well, if we could read the warning on the statue we might know,"
replied Mr. Damon. "That probably says that whoever disturbs the
status will close up the golden city forever."

"Maybe there's another way out--or in," suggested Tom hopefully. "We
didn't look for that. It must be our next move. We must not let a
single chance go by. We'll look for some way of getting out, at the
far end of this underground city."

Filled with gloomy and foreboding thoughts, they walked away from
the stone barrier. To search for another means of egress would take
some time, and the same fear came to all of them--could they live
that long?

"It was a queer thing, to make that statue hollow," mused Ned as he
walked between Mr. Damon and Tom. "I wonder why it was done, when
all the others are solid gold?"

"Maybe they found they couldn't melt up, and cast in a mould, enough
gold to make a solid statue that size," suggested Mr. Damon. "Then,
too, there may have been no means of getting it on the pedestal if
they made it too heavy."

They discussed these and other matters as they hurried on to seek
for some way of escape. In fact to talk seemed to make them less
gloomy and sad, and they tried to keep up their spirits.

For several hours they searched eagerly for some means of getting
out of the underground city. They went to the farthest limits of it,
and found it to be several miles in diameter, but eventually they
came to solid walls of stone which reached from roof to ceiling, and
there was no way out.

They found that the underground city was exactly like an overturned
bowl, or an Esquimo ice hut, hollow within, and with a tunnel
leading to it--but all below the surface of the earth. The city had
been hollowed out of solid rock, and there was but one way in or
out, and that was closed by the seamless stone.

"There's no use hunting any longer," declared Tom, when, weary and
footsore, they had completed a circuit of the outer circumference of
the city, "the rock passage is our only hope."

"And that's no hope at all!" declared Ned.

"Yes, we must try to raise that stone slab, or--break it!" cried Tom
desperately. "Come on."

"Wait a bit," advised Mr. Damon. "Bless my dinner plate! but I'm
hungry. We brought some food along, and my advice to you is to eat
and keep up our strength. We'll need it."

"By golly gracious, that's so!" declared Eradicate. "I'll git de
eatin's."

Fortunately there was a goodly supply, and, going in one the houses
they ate off a table of solid gold, and off dishes of the precious,
yellow metal. Yet they would have given it all--yes, even the gold
in their dirigible balloon--for a chance for freedom.

"I wonder what became of the chaps who used to live here?" mused Ned
as he finished the rather frugal meal.

"Oh, they probably died--from a plague maybe, or there may have been
a war, or the people may have risen in revolt and killed them off,"
suggested Tom grimly.

"But then there ought to be some remains--some mummies or skeletons
or something."

"I guess every one left this underground city--every soul."
suggested Mr. Damon, "and then they turned on the river and left it.
I shouldn't be surprised but what we are the first persons to set
foot here in thousands of years."

"And WE may stay here for a thousand years," predicted Tom.

"Oh, good land a' massy; doan't say dat!" cried Eradicate. "Why
we'll all be dead ob starvation in dat time."

"Before then, I guess," muttered Tom. "I wonder if there's any water
in this hole?"

"We'll need it--soon," remarked Ned, looking at the scanty supply
they had brought in with them. "Let's have a hunt for it."

"Let Rad do that, while we work on the stone gate," proposed the
young inventor. "Rad, chase off and see if you can find some water."

While the colored man was gone, Tom, Ned and Mr. Damon went back to
the stone gate. To attack it without tools, or some powerful
blasting powder seemed useless, but their case was desperate and
they knew they must do something.

"We'll try chipping away the stone at the base," suggested Tom. "It
isn't a very hard rock, in fact it's a sort of soft marble, or white
sand stone, and we may be able to cut out a way under the slab door
with our knifes."

Fortunately they had knives with big, strong blades, and as Tom had
said, the stone was comparatively soft. But, after several hours'
work they only had a small depression under the stone door.

"At this rate it will take a month," sighed Ned.

"Say!" cried Tom, "we're foolish. We should try to cut through the
stone slab itself. It can't be so very thick. And another thing. I'm
going to play the flames from the gas torches on the stone. The
fires will make it brittle and it will chip off easier."

This was so, but even with that advantage they had only made a
slight impression on the solid stone door after more than four hours
of work, and Eradicate came back, with a hopeless look on his face,
to report that he had been unable to find water.

"Then we've got to save every drop of what we've got," declared Tom.
"Short rations for everybody."

"And our lights, too," added Mr. Damon. "We must save them."

"All out but one!" cried Tom quickly. "If we're careful we can make
them gas torches last a week, and the electric flashes are good for
several days yet."

Then they laid out a plan of procedure, and divided the food into as
small rations as would support life. It was grim work, but it had to
be done. They found, with care, that they might live for four days
on the food and water and then--

Well--no one liked to think about it.

"We must take turns chipping away at the stone door," decided Tom.
"Some of us will work and some will sleep--two and two, I guess."

This plan was also carried out, and Tom and Eradicate took the first
trick of hacking away at the door.

How they managed to live in the days that followed they could never
tell clearly afterward. It was like some horrible nightmare,
composed of hours of hacking away at the stone, and then of eating
sparingly, drinking more sparingly, and resting, to get up, and do
it all over again.

Their water was the first to give out, for it made them thirsty to
cut at the stone, and parched mouths and swollen tongues demanded
moisture. They did manage to find a place where a few drops of water
trickled through the rocky roof, and without this they would have
died before five days had passed.

They even searched, at times for another way out of the city of
gold, for Tom had insisted there must be a way, as the air in the
underground cave remained so fresh. But there must have been a
secret way of ventilating the place, as no opening was found, and
they went back to hacking at the stone.

Just how many days they spent in their horrible golden prison they
never really knew. Tom said it was over a week, Ned insisted it was
a month, Mr. Damon two months, and Eradicate pitifully said "it seem
mos' laik a yeah, suah!"

It must have been about eight days, and at the end of that time
there was not a scrap of food left, and only a little water. They
were barely alive, and could hardly wield the knives against the
stone slab. They had dug a hole about a foot deep in it, but it
would have to be made much larger before any one could crawl
through, even when it penetrated to the other side. And how soon
this would be they did not know.

It was about the end of the eighth day, and Tom and Ned were hacking
away at the rocky slab, for Mr. Damon and Eradicate were too weary.

Tom paused for a moment to look helplessly at his chum. As he did so
he heard, amid the silence, a noise on the other side of the stone
door.

"What--what's that?" Tom gasped faintly.

"It sounds--sounds like some one--coming," whispered Ned. "Oh, if it
is only a rescue party!"

"A rescue party?" whispered Tom. "Where would a rescue party--"

He stopped suddenly. Unmistakably there were voices on the other
side of the barrier--human voices.

"It IS a rescue party!" cried Ned.

"I--I hope so," spoke Tom slowly.

"Mr. Damon--Eradicate!" yelled Ned with the sudden strength of hope,
"they're coming to save us! Hurry over here!"

And then, as he and Tom stood, they saw, with staring eyes, the
great stone slab slowly beginning to rise!




CHAPTER XXIV.

THE FIGHT


The talk sounded more plainly now--a confused murmur of voices--many
of them--the sound coming under the slowly raising stone doorway.

"Who can it be--there's a lot of them," murmured Ned.

Tom did not answer. Instead he silently sped back to where they had
slept and got his automatic revolver.

"Better get yours," he said to his companions. "It may be a rescue
party, though I don't see how any one could know we were in here, or
it may be--"

He did not finish. They all knew what he meant, and a moment later
four strained and anxious figures stood on the inner side of the
stone door, revolvers in hand, awaiting what might be revealed to
them. Would it be friend or foe?

At Tom's feet lay the golden head--the hollow head of the statue.
The scene was illumined by a flickering gas torch--the last one, as
the others had burned out.

Slowly the stone went up, very slowly, for it was exceedingly heavy
and the mechanism that worked it was primitive. Up and up it went
until now a man could have crawled under. Ned made a motion as if he
was going to do so, but Tom held him back.

Slowly and slowly it went up. On the other side was a very babble of
voices now--voices speaking a strange tongue. Tom and his companions
were silent.

Then, above the other voices, there sounded the tones of some one
speaking English. Hearing it Tom started, and still more as he noted
the tones, for he heard this said:

"We'll be inside in a minute, dad, and I guess we'll show Tom Swift
that he and his crowd can't fool us. We've got to the city of gold
first!"

"Andy Foger!" hoarsely whispered Tom to Ned.

The next moment the stone gate went up with a rush, and there, in
the light of the gas torch, and in the glare of many burning ones of
wood, held by a throng of people on the other side, stood Andy
Foger, his father, Delazes, and a horde of men who looked as wild as
savages.

For a moment both parties stood staring at one another, too startled
to utter a sound. Then as Tom noticed that some of the natives, who
somewhat resembled the ancient Aztecs, had imitation human heads
stuck on the ends of poles or spears, he uttered two words:

"Head-hunters!"

Like a flash there came to him the warning of the African
missionary: "Beware of the head-hunters!" Now they were here--being
led on by the Mexican and the Fogers--the enemies of our friends.

For another moment there was a silence, and then Andy Foger cried
out:

"They're here! Tom Swift and his party! They got here first and they
may have all the gold!"

"If they have they will share it with us!" cried Delazes fiercely.

"Quick!" Tom called hoarsely to Ned, Mr. Damon and Eradicate. "We've
got to fight. It's the only way to save our lives. We must fight,
and when we can, escape, get to the airship and sail away. It's a
fight to the finish now."

He raised his automatic revolver, and, as he did so one of the
savages saw the golden head of the statue lying at Tom's feet. The
man uttered a wild cry and called out something in his unknown
tongue. Then he raised his spear and hurled it straight at our hero.

Had not Mr. Damon pulled Tom to one side, there might have been a
different ending to this story. As it was the weapon hissed through
the air over the head of the young inventor. The next minute his
revolver spat lead and fire, but whether he hit any one or not he
could not see, as the place was so filled with smoke, from the
powder and from the torches. But some one yelled in pain.

"Crouch down and fire!" ordered Tom. "Low down and they'll throw
over our heads." It was done on the instant, and the four revolvers
rang out together.

There were howls of pain and terror and above them could be heard
the gutteral tones of Delazes, while Andy Foger yelled:

"Look out dad! Here, help me to get behind something or I may be
hit. Mr. Delazes, can't you tell those savages to throw spears at
Tom Swift and his gang?"

"They are doing it, Senor Foger," replied the Mexican. "Oh, why did
I not think to bring my gun! We haven't one among us." Then he
called some command to the head-hunters who had apparently been
enlisted on the side of himself and the two Fogers.

The automatic revolvers were soon emptied, and the place was now so
full of smoke that neither party could see the other. The torches
burned with a red glare.

"Reload!" ordered Tom, "and we'll make a rush for it! We can't keep
this up long!"

It took but an instant to slip in another lot of cartridges and
then, on Tom's advice, they slipped the catches to make the
automatic weapons simple ones, to be fired at will.

They sent several more shots through the door-way but no cries of
pain followed, and it was evident that their enemies had stepped
back out of the line of fire.

"Now's our chance!" cried Tom. "The way is clear. Come on!"

He and the others dashed forward, Tom carrying the golden head,
though it was hard work. It was not very heavy but it was awkward.

As they rushed through the now open gateway they crouched low to
avoid the spears, but, as it was one grazed Tom's shoulder, and
Eradicate was pierced in the fleshy part of his arm.

"Forward! Forward!" cried Tom. "Come on!"

And on they went, through the smoke and darkness, Ned flashing his
electric torch which gave only a feeble glow as the battery was
almost exhausted. On and on! Now they were through the stone
gateway, now out in the long tunnel.

Behind them they could hear feet running, and several spears
clattered to the stone floor. Lights flickered behind them.

"If only the river bed is dry!" gasped Tom. "We may yet escape. But
if they've filled the channel--"

He did not dare think of what that would mean as he ran on, turning
occasionally to fire, for he and the others had again reloaded their
revolvers.




CHAPTER XXV

THE ESCAPE--CONCLUSION


The noise behind our friends increased. There were shouts of rage,
yells of anger at the escape of the prey. High above the other
voices were the shrill war-cries of the head-hunters--the savages
with their grewsome desires.

"Can--can we make it, Tom?" panted Ned.

They were almost at the river channel now, and in another instant
they had reached it.

By the feeble rays of Ned's electric torch they saw with relief that
it was empty, though they would have given much to see just a
trickle of water in it, for they were almost dead from thirst.

Together they climbed up the other side, and as yet their pursuers
had not reached the brink. For one moment Tom had a thought of
working the black knob, and flooding the channel, but he could not
doom even the head-hunters, much less the Fogers and Delazes, to
such a death as that would mean.

On ran Tom and his companions, but now they could glance back and
see the foremost of the other crowd dipping down into the dry
channel.

"The steps! The steps!" suddenly cried Ned, when they had run a long
distance, as a faint gleam of daylight beyond shewed the opening
beneath the stone altar. "We're safe now."

"Hardly, but a few minutes will tell," said Tom. "The balloon is in
shape for a quick rise, and then we'll leave this horrible place
behind."

"And all the gold, too," murmured Ned regretfully. "We've got some,"
said Mr. Damon, "and I wouldn't take a chance with those head-hunters
for all the gold in the underground city."

"Same here!" panted Tom. Then they were at the steps and ran up
them.

Out into the big auditorium they emerged, weak and faint, and toward
the hidden dirigible balloon they rushed.

"Quick!" cried Tom, as he climbed into the car, followed by Mr.
Damon and Eradicate. "Shove it right under the broken dome, Ned, and
I'll turn on the gas machine. It's partly inflated."

A moment later the balloon was right below the big opening. The blue
sky showed through it--a welcome sight to our friends. The hiss of
the gas was heard, and the bag distended still more.

"Hop in!" cried Tom. "She'll go up I guess."

"There they come!" shouted Ned, as he spoke the foremost of the
head-hunters emerged from the hole beneath the stone altar. He was
followed by Delazes.

"Stop them! Get them! Spear them!" cried the contractor. They
evidently thought our friends had all the gold from the underground
city.

Fortunately the temple was so large that the balloon was a good
distance from the hole leading to the tunnel, and before the
foremost of the head-hunters could reach it the dirigible began to
rise.

"If they throw their spears, and puncture the bag in many places
we're done for," murmured Tom. But evidently the savages did not
think of this, though Delazes screamed it at them.

Up went the balloon, and not a moment too soon, for one of the
head-hunters actually grabbed the edge of the car, and only let go when
he found himself being lifted off the temple floor.

Up and up it went and, as it was about to emerge from the broken
dome, Tom looked down and saw a curious sight.

Mr. Foger and Andy, who brought up in the rear of the pursuing and
attacking party, had just emerged from the hole by the great stone
altar when there suddenly spouted from the same opening a solid
column of water. A cry of wonder came from all as they saw the
strange sight. A veritable geyser was now spurting in the very
middle of the temple floor, and the head-hunters, the Mexicans and
the Fogers ran screaming to get out of the way.

"Look!" cried Ned. "What happened?"

"The underground river must be running the wrong way!" answered Tom,
as he prepared to set in motion the motor. "Either they accidentally
turned some hidden lever, or when they raised the stone door they
did it. The tunnel is flooded and--"

"Bless my match box! So is the underground city!" cried Mr. Damon.
"I guess we've seen the last of it and its gold. We were lucky to
escape with our lives, and these fellows might have been drowned
like rats in a trap, if they hadn't followed us. The underground
city will never be discovered again."

"And now for home!" cried Tom, when they had eaten and drunk
sparingly until they should get back their strength, and had seen to
their slight wounds.

"And our trip wasn't altogether a failure," said Mr. Damon. "We'd
have had more gold if the stone door hadn't trapped us. But I guess
we have enough as it is. I wonder how the Fogers ever found us?"

"They must have followed our trail, though how we'll never know and
they came up to where Delazes and his men were, joined forces with
them, and hunted about until they found the temple," remarked Tom.
"Then they saw the opening, went down, and found the stone door."

"But how did they get it open? and what were they doing with the
head-hunters, and why didn't the head-hunters attack them?" Ned
wanted to know.

"Well, I guess perhaps Delazes knew how to handle those head-hunters,"
replied Tom. "They may be a sort of lost tribe of Mexicans, and
perhaps their ancestors centuries ago owned the city of gold.
At any rate I think some of them knew the secret of raising the
door." And later Tom learned in a roundabout way from the Fogers
that this was so. The father and son had after much hardship joined
forces with Delazes and he, by a promise of the heads of the party
of our friends, and much tobacco, had gained the head-hunters as
allies.

On and on sailed the balloon and our friends regained their strength
after partaking of the nourishing food. They looked at their store
of gold and found it larger than they had thought. Soon they left
far behind them the great plain of the ruined temple, which, had
they but known it was a lake now, for the underground river, perhaps
by some break in the underground mechanism that controlled it, or a
break in the channel, overflowed and covered temple, plain and
underground city with water many fathoms deep.

"Are we going all the way home in the balloon?" asked Ned on the
second day of their voyage in the air, when they had stopped to make
slight repairs.

"No, indeed," replied Tom. "As soon as we get to some city where we
can pack it up, and ship our gold without fear of being robbed, I'm
coming to earth, and go home in a steamer."

This plan was carried out; and a week later, with the gold safely
insured by an express company, and the balloon packed for
transportation, our friends went to a railroad station, and took a
train for Tampico, there to get a steamer for New York.

"Bless my top knot!" exclaimed Mr. Damon a few days after this, as
they were on the vessel. "I think for queer adventures this one of
ours in the city of gold, Tom, puts it all over the others we had."

"Oh, I don't know," answered the young inventor, "we certainly had
some strenuous times in the past, and I hope we'll have some more in
the future."

"The same here," agreed Ned.

And whether they did or not I will leave my readers to judge if they
peruse the next book in this series, which will be called, "Tom
Swift and His Air Glider; Or, Seeking the Platinum Treasure."

They arrived safely in Shopton in due course of time, and found Mr.
Swift well. They did not become millionaires, for they found, to
their regret that their gold was rather freely alloyed with baser
metals, so they did not have more than half the amount in pure solid
gold. But there was a small fortune in it for all of them.

In recognition of Mr. Illingway, the African missionary having put
Tom on the track of the gold, a large sum was sent to him, to help
him carry on his work of humanity.

Tom had many offers for the big golden head, but he would not sell
it, though he loaned it to a New York museum, where it attracted
much attention. There were many articles written about the
underground city of gold from the facts the young inventor
furnished.

Eventually the Fogers got home, but they did not say much about
their experiences, and Tom and his friends did not think it worth
while to prosecute them for the attack. As for Delazes, Tom never
saw nor heard from him again, not in all his reading could he find
any account of the head-hunters, who must have been a small, little
known tribe.

"And you really kept your promise, and brought me a golden image?"
asked Mary Nestor of Tom, when he called on her soon after reaching
home.

"Indeed I did, the two that I promised and a particularly fine one
that I picked up almost at the last minute," and Tom gave her the
valuable relics.

"And now tell me about it," she begged, when she had admired them,
and then sat down beside Tom: and there we will leave our hero for
the present, as he is in very good company, and I know he wouldn't
like to be disturbed.

THE END






TOM SWIFT AND HIS AIR GLIDER

or

Seeking the Platinum Treasure


By

VICTOR APPLETON



CONTENTS

     I  A Breakdown
    II  A Daring Project
   III  The Hand of the Czar
    IV  The Search
     V  A Clew from Russia
    VI  Rescuing Mr. Petrofsky
   VII  The Air Glider
  VIII  In a Great Gale
    IX  The Spies
     X  Off in the Airship
    XI  A Storm at Sea
   XII  An Accident
  XIII  Seeking a Quarrel
   XIV  Hurried Flight
    XV  Pursued
   XVI  The Nihilists
  XVII  On to Siberia
 XVIII  In a Russian Prison
   XIX  Lost in a Salt Mine
    XX  The Escape
   XXI  The Rescue
  XXII  In the Hurricane
 XXIII  The Lost Mine
  XXIV  The Leaking Tanks
   XXV  Homeward Bound--Conclusion





TOM SWIFT AND HIS AIR GLIDER




CHAPTER I

A BREAKDOWN


"Well, Ned, are you ready?"

"Oh, I suppose so, Tom. As ready as I ever shall be."

"Why, Ned Newton, you're not getting afraid; are you? And after you've
been on so many trips with me?"

"No, it isn't exactly that, Tom. I'd go in a minute if you didn't have
this new fangled thing on your airship. But how do you know how it's
going to work--or whether it will work at all? We may come a cropper."

"Bless my insurance policy!" exclaimed a man who was standing near the
two lads who were conversing. "You'd better keep near the ground, Tom."

"Oh, that's all right, Mr. Damon," answered Tom Swift. "There isn't any
more danger than there ever was, but I guess Ned is nervous since our
trip to the underground city of gold."

"I am not!" indignantly exclaimed the other lad, with a look at the
young inventor. "But you know yourself, Tom, that putting this new
propeller on your airship, changing the wing tips, and re-gearing the
motor has made an altogether different sort of a craft of it. You,
yourself, said it wasn't as reliable as before, even though it does go
faster."

"Now look here, Ned!" burst out Tom. "That was last week that I said it
wasn't reliable. It is now, for I've tried it out several times, and
yet, when I ask you to take a trip with me, to act as ballast--"

"Is that all you want me for, Tom, to act as ballast? Then you'd better
take a bag of sand--or Mr. Damon here!"

"Me? I guess not! Bless my diamond ring! My wife hasn't forgiven me for
going off on that last trip with you, Tom, and I'm not going to take
any more right away. But I don't blame Ned--"

"Say, look here!" cried Tom, a little out of patience, "you know me
better than that, Ned. Of course you're more than ballast--I want you to
help me manage the craft since I made the changes on her. Now if you
don't want to come, why say so, and I'll get Eradicate. I don't believe
he'll be afraid, even if he--"

"Hold on dar now, Massa Tom!" exclaimed an aged colored man, who was an
all around helper at the Swift homestead, "was yo' referencin' t' me
when yo' spoke?"

"Yes, Rad, I was saying that if Ned wouldn't go up in the airship with
me you would."

"Well, now, Masa Tom, I shorely would laik t' 'blige yo', I shore
would.  But de fack ob de mattah am dat I has a mos' particular job ob
white washin' t' do dish mornin', an' I 'spects I'd better be gittin'
at it.  It's a mos' particular job, an', only fo' dat, I'd be mos'
pleased t' go up in de airship. But as it am, I mus' ax yo' t' 'scuse
me, I really mus'," and the colored man shuffled off at a faster gait
than he was in the habit of using.

"Well, of all things!" gasped Tom. "I believe you're all afraid of the
old airship, just because I made some changes in her. I'll go up alone,
that's what I will."

"No, I'll go with you," interposed Ned Newton who was Tom's most
particular chum. "I only wanted to be sure it was all right, that was
all."

"Well, if you've fully made up your mind," went on the young inventor,
a little mollified, "lend me a hand to get her in shape for a run. I
expect to make faster time than I ever did before, and I'm going to
head out Waterford way. You'd better come along, Mr. Damon, and I'll
drop you off at your house."

"Bless my feather bed!" gasped the man. "Drop me off! I like that, Tom
Swift!"

"Oh, I didn't mean it exactly that way," laughed Tom. "But will you
come."

"No, thanks, I'm going home by trolley," and then as the odd man went
in the house to speak to Tom's father, the two lads busied themselves
about the airship.

This was a large aeroplane, one of the largest Tom Swift had ever
constructed, and he was a lad who had invented many kinds of machinery
besides crafts for navigating the upper regions. It was not as large as
his combined aeroplane and dirigible balloon of which I have told you
in other books, but it was of sufficient size to carry three persons
besides other weight.

Tom had built it some years before, and it had seemed good enough then.
Later he constructed some of different models, besides the big
combination affair, and he had gone on several trips in that.

He and his chum Ned, together with Eradicate Sampson, the colored man,
and Mr. Damon, had been to a wonderful underground city of gold in
Mexico, and it was soon after their return from this perilous trip that
Tom had begun the work of changing his old aeroplane into a speedier
craft.

This had occupied him most of the Winter, and now that Spring had come
he had a chance to try what a re-built motor, changed propellers, and
different wing tips would do for the machine.

The time had come for the test and, as we have seen, Tom had some
difficulty in persuading anyone to go along with him! But Ned finally
got over his feeling of nervousness.

"Understand, Tom," spoke Ned, "it isn't because I don't think you know
how to work an aeroplane that I hesitated. I've been up in the air with
you enough times to know that you're there with the goods, but I don't
believe even you know what this machine is going to do."

"I can pretty nearly tell. I'm sure my theory is right."

"I don't doubt that. But will it work out in practice?"

"She may not make all the speed I hope she will, and I may not be able
to push her high into the air quicker than I used to before I made the
changes," admitted Tom, "but I'm sure of one thing. She'll fly, and she
won't come down until I'm ready to let her. So you needn't worry about
getting hurt."

"All right--if you say so. Now what do you want me to do, Tom?"

"Go over the wire guys and stays for the first thing. There's going to
be lots of vibration, with the re-built motor, and I want everything
tight."

"Aye, aye, sir!" answered Ned with a laugh.

Then he set at his task, tightening the small nuts, and screwing up the
turn-buckles, while Tom busied himself over the motor. There was some
small trouble with the carburetor that needed eliminating before it
would feed properly.

"How about the tires?" asked Ned, when he had finished the wires.

"You might pump them up. There, the motor is all right. I'm going to
try it now, while you attend to the tires."

Ned had pumped up one of the rubber circlets of the small bicycle
wheels on which the aeroplane rested, and was beginning on the second,
when a noise like a battery of machine guns going off next to his ear
startled him so that he jumped, tripped over a stone and went down, the
air pump thumping him in the back.

"What in the world happened, Tom?" he yelled, for he had to use all his
lung power to be heard above that racket. "Did it explode?"

"Explode nothing!" shouted Tom. "That's the re-built motor in action."

"In action! I should say it was in action. Is it always going to roar
like that?"

Indeed the motor was roaring away, spitting fire and burnt gases from
the exhaust pipe, and enveloping the aeroplane in a whitish haze of
choking smoke.

No, I have the muffler cut out, and that's why she barks so. But she
runs easier that way, and I want to get her smoothed out a bit.

"Whew! That smoke!" gasped his chum. "Why don't you--whew--this is more
than I can stand," and holding his hands to his smarting eyes, Ned,
gasping and choking, staggered away to where the air was better.

"It is sort of thick," admitted Tom. "But that's only because she's
getting too much oil. She'll clear in a few minutes. Stick around and
we'll go up."

Despite the choking vapor, the young inventor stuck to his task of
regulating the motor, and in a short while the smoke became less, while
the big propeller blades whirled about more evenly. Then Tom adjusted
the muffler, and most of the noise stopped.

"Come on back, and finish pumping up the tires," he shouted to Ned.
"I'm going to stop her now, and then I'll give her the pressure test,
and we'll take a trip."

Having cleared his eyes of smoke, Ned came back to his task, and this
having been finished, Tom attached a heavy spring balance, or scales,
to the rope that held the airship back from moving when her propellers
were whirling about.

"How much pressure do you want?" asked Ned.

"I ought to get above twelve hundred with the way the motor is geared,
but I'll go up with ten. Watch the needle for me."

It may be explained that when aeroplanes are tested on the earth the
propellers are set in motion. This of course would send a craft
whizzing over the ground, eventually to rise in the air, but for the
fact that a rope, attached to the craft, and to some stationary object,
holds it back.

Now if this rope is hooked to a spring balance, which in turn is made
fast to the stationary object, the "thrust" of the propellers will be
registered in pounds on the scale of the balance. Anywhere from five
hundred to nine hundred pounds of thrust will take a monoplane or
biplane up. But Tom wanted more than this.

Once more the motor coughed and spluttered, and the big blades whirled
about so fast that they seemed like solid pieces of wood. Tom stood on
the ground near the levers which controlled the speed, and Ned watched
the scale.

"How much?" yelled the young inventor.

"Eight hundred."

Tom turned on a little more gasolene.

"How much?" he cried again.

"Ten hundred. That'll do!"

"No, I'm going to try for more."

Again he advanced the spark and gasolene levers, and the comparatively
frail craft vibrated so that it seemed as if she would fly apart.

"Now?" yelled Tom.

"Eleven hundred and fifty!" cried Ned.

"Good! That'll do it. She'll give more after she's been running a
while.  We'll go up."

Ned scrambled to his seat, and Tom followed. He had an arrangement so
that he could slip loose the retaining rope from his perch whenever he
was ready.

Waiting until the motor had run another minute, the young inventor
pulled the rope that released them. Over the smooth starting ground
that formed a part of the Swift homestead darted the aeroplane. Faster
and faster she moved, Ned gripping the sides of his seat.

"Here we go!" cried Tom, and the next instant they shot up into the air.

Ned Newton had ridden many times with his chum Tom, and the sensation
of gliding through the upper regions was not new to him. But this time
there was something different. The propellers seemed to take hold of
the air with a firmer grip. There was more power, and certainly the
speed was terrific.

"We're going fast!" yelled Ned into Tom's ear.

"That's right," agreed the young inventor. "She'll beat anything but my
Sky Racer, and she'd do that if she was the same size." Tom referred to
a very small aeroplane he had made some time before. It was like some
big bird, and very swift.

Up and onward went the remodeled airship, faster and faster, until,
when several miles had been covered, Ned realized that the young
inventor had achieved another triumph.

"It's great, Tom! Great!" he yelled.

"Yes, I guess it will do, Ned. I'm satisfied. If there was an
international meet now I'd capture some of the prizes. As it is--"

Tom stopped suddenly. His voice which had been raised to overcome the
noise of even the muffled motor, sounded unnaturally loud, and no
wonder, for the engine had ceased working!

"What's the matter?" gasped Ned.

"I don't know--a breakdown of some kind."

"Can you get it going again?"

"I'm going to try."

Tom was manipulating various levers, but with no effect. The aeroplane
was shooting downward with frightful rapidity.

"No use!" exclaimed the young inventor. "Something has broken."

"But we're falling, Tom!"

"I know it. We've done it before. I'm going to volplane to earth."

This, it may be explained, is gliding downward from a height with the
engine shut off. Aeroplanists often do it, and Tom was no novice at the
art.

They shot downward with less speed now, for the young inventor had
thrown up his headplanes to act as a sort of brake. Then, a little
later they made a good landing in a field near a small house, in a
rather lonely stretch of country, about ten miles from Shopton, where
Tom lived.

"Now to see what the trouble is," remarked our hero, as he climbed out
of his seat and began looking over the engine. He poked in among the
numerous cogs, wheels and levers, and finally uttered an exclamation.

"Find it?" asked Ned.

"Yes, it's in the magneto. All the platinum bearings and contact
surfaces have fused and crystallized. I never saw such poor platinum as
I've been getting lately, and I pay the highest prices for it, too. The
trouble is that the supply of platinum is giving out, and they'll have
to find a substitute I guess."

"Can't we go home in her?" asked Ned.

"I'm afraid not. I've got to put in new platinum bearings and contacts
before she'll spark. I only wish I could get hold of some of the better
kind of metal."

The magneto of an aeroplane performs a service similar to one in an
automobile. It provides the spark that explodes the charge of gas in
the cylinders, and platinum is a metal, more valuable now than gold,
much used in the delicate parts of the magneto.

"Well, I guess it's walk for ours," said Ned ruefully.

"I'm afraid so," went on Tom. "If I only had some platinum, I could--"

"Perhaps I could be of service to you," suddenly spoke a voice behind
them, and turning, the youths saw a tall, bearded man, who had
evidently come from the lonely house. "Did I hear you say you needed
some platinum?" he asked. He spoke with a foreign accent, and Tom at
once put him down for a Russian.

"Yes, I need some for my magneto," began the young inventor.

"If you will kindly step up to my house, perhaps I can give you what
you want," went on the man. "My name is Ivan Petrofsky, and I have only
lately come to live here."

"I'm Tom Swift, of Shopton, and this is my chum, Ned Newton," replied
the young inventor, completing the introductions. He was wondering why
the man, who seemed a cultured gentleman, should live in such a lonely
place, and he was wondering too how he happened to have some platinum.

"Will that answer?" asked Mr. Petrofsky, when they had reached his
house, and he had handed Tom several strips of the precious silverlike
metal.

"Do? I should say it would! My, but that is the best platinum I've seen
in a long while!" exclaimed Tom, who was an expert judge of this metal.
"Where did you get it, if I may ask?"

"It came from a lost mine in Siberia," was the unexpected answer.

"A lost mine?" gasped Tom.

"In Siberia?" added Ned.

Mr. Petrofsky slowly nodded his head, and smiled, but rather sadly.

"A lost mine," he said slowly, "and if it could be found I would be the
happiest man on earth for I would then be able to locate and save my
brother, who is one of the Czar's exiles," and he seemed shaken by
emotion.

Tom and Ned stood looking at the bearded man, and then the young
inventor glanced at the platinum strips in his hand while a strange and
daring thought came to him.




CHAPTER II

A DARING PROJECT


While Tom and his chum are in the house of the Russian, who so
strangely produced the platinum just when it was most needed, I am
going to take just a little time to tell you something about the hero
of this story.  Those who have read the previous books of this series
need no introduction to him, but in justice to my new readers I must
make a little explanation.

Tom Swift was an inventor, as was his father before him. But Mr. Swift
was getting too old, now, to do much, though he had a pet
invention--that of a gyroscope--on which he worked from time to time.
Tom lived with his father in the village of Shopton, in New York state.
His mother was dead, but a housekeeper, named Mrs. Baggert, looked
after the wants of the inventors, young and old.

The first book of the series was called "Tom Swift and His
Motor-Cycle," and in that I related how Tom bought the machine from a
Mr. Wakefield Damon, of Waterford, after the odd gentleman had
unintentionally started to climb a tree with it. That disgusted Mr.
Damon with motor-cycling, and Tom had lots of fun on the machine, and
not a few daring adventures.

He and Mr. Damon became firm friends, and the oddity of the
gentleman--mainly that of blessing everything he could think of--was no
objection in Tom's mind. The young inventor and Ned Newton went on many
trips together, Mr. Damon being one of the party.

In Shopton lived Andy Foger, a bullying sort of a chap, who acted very
meanly toward Tom at times. Another resident of the town was a Mr.
Nestor, but Tom was more interested in his daughter Mary than in the
head of the household. Add Eradicate Sampson, an eccentric colored man
who said he got his name because he "eradicated" dirt, and his mule,
Boomerang, and I think you have met the principal characters of these
stories.

After Tom had much enjoyment out of his motor-cycle, he got a motor
boat, and one of his rivals on Lake Carlopa was this same Andy Foger,
but our hero vanquished him. Then Tom built an airship, which had been
the height of his ambition for some years. He had a stirring cruise in
the Red Cloud, and then, deserting the air for the water, Tom and his
father built a submarine, in which they went after sunken treasure. In
the book, "Tom Swift and His Electric Runabout," I told how, in the
speediest car on the road, Tom saved his father's bank from ruin, and
in the book dealing with Tom's wireless message I related how he saved
the Castaways of Earthquake Island.

When Tom went among the diamond makers, at the request of Mr. Barco
Jenks, and discovered the secret of phantom mountain the lad fancied
that might be the end of his adventures, but there were more to follow.
Going to the caves of ice, his airship was wrecked, but he and his
friends managed to get back home, and then it was that the young
inventor perfected his sky racer, in which he made the quickest flight
on record.

Most startling were his adventures in elephant land whither he went
with his electric rifle, and he was the means of saving a missionary,
Mr. Illingway and his wife, from the red pygmies.

Tom had not been home from Africa long before he got a letter from this
missionary, telling about an underground city in Mexico that was said
to be filled with gold. Tom went there, and in the book, entitled, "Tom
Swift in the City of Gold," I related his adventures.

How he and his friends were followed by the Fogers, how they eluded
them, made their way to the ruined temple in a small dirigible balloon,
descended to the secret tunnel, managed to turn aside the underground
river, and reach the city of gold with its wonderful gold statues--all
this is told in the volume.

Then, after pulling down, in the centre of the underground city, the
big golden statue, the door of rock descended, and made our friends
prisoners. They almost died, but Andy Foger and his father, in league
with some rascally Mexicans and a tribe of head-hunters, finally made
their way to the tunnel, and most unexpectedly, released Tom and his
friends.

There was a fight, but our hero's party escaped with considerable gold
and safely reached Shopton. Now, after a winter spent in work, fixing
over an old aeroplane, we again meet Tom.

"Would you mind telling me something about where this platinum comes
from, and if you can get any more of it?" asked Tom, after a pause,
following the strange statement made by the Russian.

"I will gladly tell you the story," spoke Mr. Petrofsky, "for I am much
interested in inventions, and I formerly did something in that line
myself, and I have even made a small aeroplane, so you see I know the
need of platinum in a high power magneto."

"But where did you get such pure metal?" asked Tom. "I have never seen
it's equal."

"There is none like it in all the world," went on the Russian, "and
perhaps there never can be any more. I have only a small supply. But in
Siberia--in the lost mine--there is a large quantity of it, as pure as
this, needing only a little refining.

"Can't we get some from there?" asked the young inventor eagerly. "I
should think the Russian government would mine it, and export it."

"They would--if they could find it," said Ivan Petrofsky dryly, "but
they can't--no one can find it--and I have tried very hard--so hard, in
fact, that it is the reason for my coming to this country--that and the
desire to find and aid my brother, who is a Siberian exile."

"This is getting interesting," remarked Ned to Tom in a low voice, and
the young inventor nodded.

"My brother Peter, who is younger than I by a few years, and I, are the
last of our family," began Mr. Petrofsky, motioning Tom and Ned to take
chairs. "We lived in St. Petersburg, and early in life, though we were
of the nobility, we took up the cause of the common people."

"Nihilists?" asked Ned eagerly, for he had read something of these
desperate men.

"No, and not anarchists," said Mr. Petrofsky with a sad smile. "Our
party was opposed to violence, and we depended on education to aid our
cause. Then, too, we did all we could in a quiet way to help the poor.
My brother and I invented several life-saving and labor-saving machines
and in this way we incurred the enmity of the rich contractors and
government officials, who made more money the more people they could
have working for them, for they made the people buy their food and
supplies from them.

"But my brother, and I persisted, with the result that we were both
arrested, and, with a number of others were sent to Siberia.

"Of the horrors we endured there I will say nothing. However, you have
probably read much. In the country near which we were quartered there
were many mines, some of salt and some of sulphur. Oh, the horrors of
those mines! Many a poor exile has been lost in the windings of a salt
mine, there to die miserably. And in the sulphur mines many die also,
not from being lost so much as being overcome by stifling gases. It is
terrible! And sometimes they are purposely abandoned by their guides,
for the government wants to get rid of certain exiles.

"But you are interested in platinum. One day my brother and I who had
been sent to work in the salt mines, mistook a turning and wandered on
and on for several miles, finally losing our way. We had food and water
with us, or we would have perished, and, as it was, we nearly died
before we finally found our way out of an abandoned opening.

"We came out in the midst of a terrible snowstorm, and wandered about
almost frozen. At last we were found by a serf who, in his sled, took
us to his poor cottage. There we were warmed and fed back to life.

"We knew we would be searched for, as naturally, our absence would lead
to the suspicion that we had tried to escape. So as soon as we were
able, we started back to the town where we were quartered. The serf
wanted to take us in his sled, but we knew he might be suspected of
having tried to aid us to get away, and he might be arrested. So we
went alone.

"As might have been expected, we became lost again, and wandered about
for several days. But we had enough food to keep us alive. And it was
during this wandering that I came upon the platinum mine. It was down
in a valley, in the midst of a country densely wooded and very
desolate.  There was an outcropping of the ore, and rather idly I put
some of it in my pockets. Then we wandered on, and finally after awful
suffering in terrific storms, were found by a searching party and
brought back to the barracks."

"Did they think you had escaped?" asked Tom.

"They did," replied the Russian, "and they punished us severely for it,
in spite of our denials. In time I managed secretly to smelt the
platinum ore, and I found I had some of the purest metal I had ever
seen. I was wishing I could find the mine, or tell some of my friends
about it, when one of the officers discovered the metal in my bed.

"He demanded to know where I had gotten it, and knowing that refusal
would only make it the worse for me I told him. There was considerable
excitement, for the value of the discovery was recognized, and a search
was at once made for the mine.

"But, even with the aid we were able to give, it could not be located.
Many expeditions went out to hunt for it but came back baffled. They
could not penetrate that wild country."

"They should have used an aeroplane," suggested Tom.

"They did," replied the Russian quickly, "but it was of no use."

"Why not?" the young inventor wanted to know.

"Because of the terrific winds that almost continually sweep over that
part of Siberia. They never seem to cease, and there are treacherous
air currents and 'pockets' that engulfed more than one luckless
aviator. Oh, you may be sure the Russian government spared no means of
finding the lost platinum mine, but they could not locate it, or even
get near the place where they supposed it to be.

"Then, perhaps thinking that my brother and I were concealing
something, they separated us. Where they sent him I do not know, but I
was doomed to the sulphur mines. I was heartbroken, and I scarcely
cared whether I lived or died. But an opportunity of escape came, and I
took it. I wanted to save my brother, but I did not know where he was,
and I thought if I could make my way to some civilized country, or to
free America, I might later be able to save my brother.

"I went to England, taking some of my precious platinum with me, and
stayed there for two years. I learned your language, but my efforts to
organize an expedition to search for the lost mine, and for my brother,
failed. Then I came here, and--well, I am still trying."

"My! That is certainly interesting!" exclaimed Ned, who had been all
attention during the telling of the story.

"And you certainly had a hard time," declared Tom. "I am much obliged
for this platinum. Have you set a price on it? It is worth much more
than the ordinary kind."

"The price is nothing to you," replied the Russian, with a smile. "I am
only too glad to help you fix your aeroplane. Will it take long? I
should like to watch you."

"Come along," invited Tom. "I can soon have it going again, and I'll
give you a ride, if you like."

"No, thank you, I'm hardly up to that yet, though I may be some day.
The machine I made never flew well and I had several bad falls."

Tom and Ned worked rapidly on the magneto, and soon had replaced the
defective bits of platinum.

"If the Russians had such a machine as this maybe they could have
gotten to that mine," suggested Ned, who was very proud of Tom's craft.

"It would be useless in the terrific winds, I fear," answered Ivan
Petrofsky. "But now I care little for the mine. It is my brother whom I
want to save. He must be in some of the Siberian mines, and if I had
such a craft as this I might be able to rescue him."

Tom Swift dropped the file he was using. A bright light sparkled in his
eyes. He seemed strangely excited.

"Mr. Petrofsky!" he cried, "would you let me have a try at finding your
brother, and would you come with me?"

"Would I?" asked the Russian eagerly. "I would be your debtor for life,
and I would always pray for you, if you could help me to save my
brother Peter."

"Then we'll have a try at it!" cried Tom. "I've got a different airship
than this--one in which I can travel three thousand miles without
coming down. I haven't had any excitement since I got back from the
city of gold. I'm going to Russia to help you rescue your brother from
exile, and I'm also going to have a try for that lost platinum
treasure!"

"Thank heaven, there is some hope for poor Peter at last," murmured Mr.
Petrofsky earnestly.

"You never can get to the platinum mine," said Ned. "The winds will
tear your airship to pieces."

"Not the kind I'm going to make," declared Tom. "It's going to be an
air glider, that will fairly live on high winds. Ho! for Siberia and
the platinum mines. Will you come?"

"I don't know what you mean by an air glider, Tom Swift, but I'll go to
help rescue my brother," was the quick answer, and then, with the light
of a daring resolve shining in his eyes, the young inventor proceeded
to get his aeroplane in shape for the trip back to Shopton.




CHAPTER III

THE HAND OF THE CZAR


"Then you won't take a ride with me to-day?" asked the young inventor,
of the Russian, as he completed the repairs to the magneto. "I'd like
to have you meet my father, and a friend of his, Mr. Damon. Most likely
he'll go to Siberia with us, if his wife will let him. I'd like to talk
some plans over with you."

"I shall certainly call on you," answered Ivan Petrofsky, "but," he
added with a smile, "I think I should prefer to take my first ride in
your larger airship--the one that doesn't come down so often."

"Well, perhaps it is a little easier on an amateur," admitted Tom. "If
you'll come over to our house at any time I'll take you out in it, or
I'll call for you."

"I'll come over in a few days," answered the escaped exile. "Then I'll
tell you all I know of the locality where the platinum mine is located,
and we can make our plans. In the meanwhile don't say anything about
what I have told you."

"Why?" asked Ned quickly.

Mr. Petrofsky approached closer to the lads, and in a low voice said:

"I am not sure about it, but of late I think I have been shadowed. I
have seen strange men in the village near here and they have eyed me
rather suspiciously. Then, too, I have surprised several men around my
house. I live here all alone, you know, and do most of my own work, a
woman coming in occasionally to clean. But I don't like these
suspicious characters hanging about.

"Who do you think they are?" asked Tom.

"I'm almost afraid to think, but from my past experience I think--nay,
I fear--they may be spies, or agents of the Russian government."

"Spies!" cried Ned.

"Hush. Not so loud," cautioned Mr. Petrofsky. "They may even now be in
hiding, especially since your aeroplane landed so near my house. They
may see something suspicious even in that."

"But why should the Russian government set spies on you?" asked Tom in
a low voice.

"For two reasons. I am an escaped exile, and I am not a citizen of the
United States. Therefore I may be sent back to the sulphur mines. And
another reason is that they may think I know the secret of the platinum
treasure--the lost mine."

"Say this is getting interesting!" exclaimed Tom. "If we are going to
have a brush with some of the spies of the Russian government so much
the better. I'm ready for 'em!"

"So am I!" added Ned.

"You don't know them," said Mr. Petrofsky, and he could not repress a
shudder. "I hope they are not on my trail, but if they are--" he paused
a moment, straightened himself up, and looked like what he was, a
strong man--"if they are let them look out. I'd give my life to save my
brother from the awful, living death to which he is consigned!"

"And we're with you!" cried Tom, offering the Russian his hand. "We'll
turn the trick yet. Now don't forget to come and see us. Come along,
Ned. If I'm going to build an air glider I've got to get busy." And
waving farewells to their new friend, the lads took their places in the
aeroplane and were soon on their way to Shopton.

"Well, what do you think of it?" asked Ned of his chum, as they sped
along at a good elevation, the engine going at half speed to be less
noisy and make talking easier.

"Lots. I think we're in for a good time, an exciting one, anyhow, if
what he says is true. But what in the world is an air glider, Tom?"

"It's the last word in aeroplanes. You don't need a motor to make it
go."

"Don't need a motor?"

"No, the wind does it all. It's a sort of aeroplane, but the motion
comes from the wind, acting on different planes, and this is
accomplished by shifting weights. In it you can stand still in a fierce
gale, if you like."

"How, by tying her fast on the ground?"

"No, hovering in the air. It's all done by getting the proper balance.
The harder the wind blows the better the air glider works, and that's
why I think it will be just the thing for Siberia. I'm going to get
right at work on it, and you'll help me; won't you?"

"I sure will. Say, is platinum worth much?"

"Worth much? I should say it was! It's got gold beat now, and the
available supply is very small, and it's getting more scarce. Russia
has several mines, and the metal is of good quality. I've used some
Russian platinum, but the kind Mr. Petrofsky gave me to-day was better
than the best I ever had. If we can only find that lost mine we'll be
millionaires all right."

"That's what we thought when we found the city of gold, but the gold
wasn't of as fine a grade as we hoped."

"Well, nothing like that can happen in this platinum deal. It sure is
rich ore that Mr. Petrofsky and his brother found. Poor fellow! To
think of being an exile in that awful country, not knowing where you
may be sent next. No wonder Mr. Petrofsky wants to rescue him."

"That's right. Well, here we are. I wonder what your father will say
when he hears you're thinking of another expedition, Tom?"

"Oh, he'll want me to go when he hears about the exile."

"And I'm sure my folks will let me go. How about Mr. Damon?"

"I don't believe we can hold him back. It will make a nice party, just
you and I, and Mr. Damon and Mr. Petrofsky. That will leave room for
the other Russian--if we can rescue him," and with that Tom shut off
the engine and glided to earth.

It may well be imagined that Mr. Swift was surprised when his son told
him the latest news, but he did not offer any serious objection to the
young inventor going to Siberia.

"Only you must be careful," he said. "Those Russian officers are ugly
when it comes to trying to take away any of their prisoners. And this
air glider--I don't exactly know about that. It's a new machine, and
you want to be sure it works before you trust yourself to it."

"I will," promised Tom. "Say, I've got plenty of work ahead of me,--to
get my big airship in shape, and build the glider. You'll have to help
me, dad."

"I will, son. Now tell me more about this Mr. Petrofsky." Which Tom did.

The days that followed were indeed busy ones for Tom. The young
inventor made a model air glider that sailed fairly well, but he knew
it would have to work better to be successful, and he bent all his
energies in that direction. Meanwhile Mr. Damon had been told of the
prospective trip.

"Bless my bank book! Of course I'll go," he said. "But don't say
anything about it to my wife--that is, just yet. I'll bring her around
to it gradually. She has always wanted a diamond ring set in platinum,
and now I can get it for her. I know she'll let me go if I break it to
her gently."

It may be mentioned here that many valuable diamonds are now set in
platinum instead of gold.

"I want to keep busy," said Mr. Damon, so Tom set him, Ned and
Eradicate at the task of getting the big airship in shape for the trip.
This air craft has not figured in any of my previous stories, but as it
is so nearly like the one that was crushed in the caves of ice, I will
not give a description of it here. Those who care to may refer to the
book telling of Tom's trip to the caves of ice for a detailed account
of the craft.

Sufficient to say that this latest airship, named the Falcon, was the
largest Tom had ever built. It contained much room, many comforts, and
could sail for several thousand miles without descending, except in
case of accident. It was a combined dirigible balloon and aeroplane,
and could be used as either, the necessary gas being made on board. It
was large enough to enable the air glider to be taken on it in sections.

It was about a week after their first meeting with him, that Ivan
Petrofsky paid a visit to the Swift home. He was warmly welcomed by the
aged inventor and Mr. Damon, and, closeted in the library of the house,
he proceeded to go more into details of his own and his brother's exile
to Siberia, and to tell about the supposed location of the lost
platinum mine.

"I don't believe we can start for several weeks yet," said Tom, after
some discussion. "It will take me that long to make the glider."

"And I, too, need a little time," said the Russian. "I will write to
some friends in St. Petersburg and perhaps they can get some
information for us, as to where my brother is.

"That will be good," declared Mr. Damon. "Bless my icicle! But the more
I think of this trip the better I like it!"

It was arranged that the Russian should call again soon, when the plans
would be nearer in shape, and in the meanwhile he must learn all he
could from revolutionary friends in Siberia.

It was a week after this, during which Tom, Ned and the others had been
very busy, that Tom decided to take a trip to see their Russian friend.
They had not heard from him since his visit, and Tom wanted to learn
something about the strength of the Siberian winds.

He and Ned went in one of the small airships and soon they were
hovering over the grounds surrounding the lonely house where Ivan
Petrofsky lived.

"He doesn't seem to be at home," remarked Ned, as they descended and
approached the dwelling.

"No, and it looks quite deserted," agreed the young inventor. "Say, all
the doors are open, too! He shouldn't go away and leave his house open
like that--with the valuable platinum there."

"Maybe he's asleep," suggested Ned.

They knocked on the opened door, but there was no answer. Then they
went inside. To their surprise the house was in confusion. Furniture
was overturned, tables and chairs were broken, and papers were
scattered about the room.

"There's been a fight here!" cried Tom.

"That's right," agreed Ned. "Maybe he's been hurt--maybe burglars came
for the platinum!"

"Come on!" cried Tom, making a dash for the stairs. "We'll see if he's
here."

The house was small, and it took but a moment to show that Mr.
Petrofsky was not there. Upstairs, as below, was the same
confusion--the overturned furniture and the papers scattered about.

Tom stooped and picked up a scrap that looked like a piece torn from a
letter. On top was a seal--the black seal of Russia--the imperial arms
of the Czar!

"Look!" cried Tom, holding out the paper.

"What is it?" asked Ned.

"The hand of the Czar!" answered his chum. "It has reached out from
Russia, and taken Mr. Petrofsky away!"




CHAPTER IV

THE SEARCH


For a moment Ned could scarcely understand what Tom meant. It scarcely
seemed possible that such a thing could happen. That some one in
far-off Russia--be it the Czar or one of the secret police--could
operate from such a distance, seeking out a man in an obscure house in
a little American village, and snatching him away.

"It isn't possible!" declared Ned breathlessly.

"What difference does that make?" asked Tom. "The thing has happened,
and you can't get out of it. Look at all the evidence--there's been a
fight, that's sure, and Mr. Petrofsky is gone."

"But maybe he went away of his own accord," insisted Ned, who was
sometimes hard to convince.

"Nonsense! If a man went away of his own accord would he smash up his
furniture, leave his papers scattered all about and go off leaving the
doors and windows open for any one to walk in? I guess not."

"Well, maybe you're right. But think of it! This isn't Russia!"

"No, but he's a Russian subject, and, by his own confession an escaped
exile. If he was arrested in the usual way he could be taken back, and
our government couldn't interfere. He's been taken back all right. Poor
man! Think of being doomed to those sulphur mines again, and as he
escaped they'll probably make it all the harder for him!"

"But I thought our government wouldn't help other nations to get back
prisoners convicted of political crimes," suggested Ned. "That's all
Mr. Petrofsky was guilty of--politics, trying to help the poor in his
own country. It's a shame if our government stands for anything like
that!"

"That's just the point!" exclaimed Tom. "Probably the spies, secret
police, or whoever the Russian agents were, didn't ask any help from
our government. If they did there might be a chance for him. But likely
they worked in secret. They came here, sneaked in on him, and took him
away before he could get help. Jove! If he could only have gotten word
to me I'd have come in the airship, and then there'd be a different
ending to this."

"I guess you're right, Tom. Well, that ends it I suppose."

"Ends what?"

"Our trip to the platinum mine."

"Not a bit of it. I'm going to have a hunt for it."

"But how can you when Mr. Petrofsky can't go along to show us the way?
Besides, we wanted to help rescue his brother, and now we can't."

"Well, I'm going to make a big try," declared the young inventor
firmly.  "And the first thing I'm going to do is to get our friend out
of the clutches of the Russian police."

"You are? How?"

"I'm going to make a search for him. Look here, Ned, he must have been
taken away some time to-day--perhaps only a few hours ago--and they
can't have gone far with him."

"How do you make that out?" Ned wanted to know.

"Well, I guess I'm detective enough for that," and Tom smiled. "Look
here, the doors and windows are open. Now it rained last night, and
there was quite a wind. If the windows had been open in the storm
there'd be some traces of moisture in the rooms. But there isn't a
drop.  Consequently the windows have been opened since last night."

"Say, that's so!" cried Ned admiringly.

"But that's not all," went on Tom. "Here's a bottle of milk on the
table, and it's fresh," which he proved by tasting it. "Now that was
left by the milkman either late last night or early this morning. I
don't believe it's over twelve hours old."

"Well, what does this mean?" asked Ned, who couldn't quite follow Tom's
line of reasoning.

"To my mind it means that the spies were here no later than this
morning. Look at the table upset, the dishes on the floor. Here's one
with oatmeal in it, and you know how hard and firm cooked oatmeal gets
after it stands a bit. This is quite fresh, and soft, and--"

"And that means--" interrupted Ned, who was in turn interrupted by Tom,
who exclaimed:

"It means that Mr. Petrofsky was at breakfast when they burst in on
him, and took him away. They had hard work overpowering him, I'll
wager, for he could put up a pretty good fight. And the broken
furniture is evidence of that. Then the spies, after tying him up, or
putting him in a carriage, searched the house for incriminating papers.
That's as plain as the nose on your face. Then the police agents, or
whoever they were, skipped out in a hurry, not taking the trouble to
close the windows and doors."

"I believe it did happen that way," agreed Ned, who clearly saw what
Tom meant. "But what can we do? How can we find him?"

"By getting on the trail," answered his chum quickly. "There may be
more clews in the house, and I'm sure there'll be some out of doors,
for they must have left footprints or the marks of carriage wheels.
We'll take a look, and then we'll get right on the search. I'm not
going to let them take Mr. Petrofsky to Russia if I can help it. I want
to get after that platinum, and he's the only one who can pilot us
anywhere near the place; and besides, there's his brother we've got to
rescue. We'll make a search for the exile."

"I'm with you!" cried Ned. "Jove! Wouldn't it be great if we could
rescue him? They can't have gotten very far with him."

"I'm afraid they have quite a start on us," admitted Tom with a dubious
shake of his head, "but as long as they're in the United States we have
a chance. If ever they get him on Russian soil it's all up with him."

"Come on then!" cried Ned. "Let's get busy. What's the first thing to
do?"

"Look for clews," replied Tom. "We'll begin at the top of the house and
work down. It's lucky we came when we did, for every minute counts."

Then the two plucky lads began their search for the kidnapped Russian
exile. Had those who took him away seen the mere youths who thus
devoted themselves to the task, they might have laughed in contempt,
but those who know Tom Swift and his sturdy chum, know that two more
resourceful and brave lads would be hard to find.




CHAPTER V

A CLEW FROM RUSSIA


"Nothing much up here," remarked Tom, when he and Ned had gone all over
the second floor twice. "That scrap of paper, which put me on to the
fact that some one from the Russian government had been here, is about
all. They must have taken all the documents Mr. Petrofsky had."

"Maybe he didn't have any," suggested Ned.

"If he was wise he'd get rid of them when he knew he was being
shadowed, as he told us. Perhaps that was why they broke up the
furniture, searching for hidden papers, or they may have done it out of
spite because they didn't find anything. But we might as well go
downstairs and look there."

But the first floor was equally unproductive of clews, save those
already noted, which showed, at least so Tom believed, that Mr.
Petrofsky had been surprised and overpowered while at breakfast.

"Now for outside!" cried the young inventor. "We'll see if we can
figure out how they got him away."

There were plenty of marks in the soft ground and turf, which was still
damp from the night's rain, though it was now afternoon. Unfortunately,
however, in approaching the house after leaving the aeroplane, Ned and
Tom had not thought to exercise caution, and, not suspecting anything
wrong, they had stepped on a number of footprints left by the
kidnappers.

But for all that, they saw enough to convince them that several men had
been at the lonely house, for there were many marks of shoes. It was
out of the question, however, to tell which were those of Mr. Petrofsky
and which those of his captors.

"They might have carried him out to a carriage they had in waiting,"
suggested Ned. "Let's go out to the front gate and look in the road.
They hardly would bring the carriage up to the door."

"Good idea," commented Tom, and they hurried to the main thoroughfare
that passed the Russian's house.

"Here they are!" cried Ned, who was in the lead. "There's been a
carriage here as sure as you're a foot high and it's a rubber-tired one
too."

"GOOD!" cried Tom admiringly. "You're coming right along in your
detective training. How do you make that out?"

"See here, where a piece of rubber has been broken or cut out of the
tire. It makes a peculiar mark in the dirt every time the wheel goes
around."

"That's right, and it will be a good thing to trace the carriage by.
Come on, we'll keep right after it."

"Hold on a bit," suggested Ned, who, though not so quick as Tom Swift,
frequently produced good results by his very slowness. "Are you going
off and leave the airship here for some one to walk off with?"

"Guess they wouldn't take it far," replied the young inventor, "but I'd
better make it safe. I'll disconnect it so they can't start it, though
if Andy Foger happens to come along he might slash the planes just out
of spite. But I guess he won't show up."

Tom took a connecting pin out of the electrical apparatus, making it
impossible to start the aeroplane, and then, wheeling it out of sight
behind a small barn, he and Ned went back to the carriage marks in the
road.

"Hurry!" urged Tom, as he started off in the direction of the village
of Hurdtown, near where the cottage stood. "We will ask people living
along the highway if they've seen a carriage pass."

"But what makes you think they went off that way?" asked Ned. "I should
think they'd head away from the village, so as not to be seen."

"No, I don't agree with you. But wait, we'll look at the marks. Maybe
that will help us."

Peering carefully at the marks of horses' hoofs and the wheel
impressions, Tom uttered a cry of discovery.

"I have it!" he declared. "The carriage came from the village, and kept
right on the other way. You're right, Ned. They didn't go back to town.

"Are you sure?"

"Of course. You can see for yourself; if the carriage had turned around
the track would show, but it doesn't and, even if they turned on the
grass, there'd be two lines of marks--one coming out here and one
returning. As it is there is only a single set--just as if the carriage
drove up here, took on its load, and continued on. This way, Ned."

They hurried down the road, and soon came to a cluster of farm houses.
Inquiries there, however, failed to bring anything to light, for either
the occupants of the house had failed to notice passing vehicles, or
there had been so many that any particular carriage was not recalled.
And there were now so many impressions in the soft dirt of the
highway--so many wheel tracks and hoof imprints--that it was impossible
to pick out those of the carriage with the cut rubber tire. "Well, I
guess it isn't of much use to go on any farther," spoke Ned, when they
had traveled several miles and had learned nothing.

"We'll try one more house, and then go back," agreed Tom. "We'll tell
dad about what's happened, and see what he says."

"Carriage?" repeated an old farmer to whom they next put the question.
"Wa'al, now, come t' think of it, I did see one drivin' along here
early this morning. It had rubber tires on too, for I recollect
remarkin' t' myself that it didn't make much noise. Had t' talk t'
myself," he added in explanation, "'cause nobody else in the family was
up, 'ceptin' th' dog."

"Did the carriage have some Russians in it?" asked Tom eagerly, "and
was one a big bearded man?"

"Wa'al, now you've got me," admitted the farmer frankly. "It was quite
early you see, and I didn't take no particular notice. I got up early
t' do my milkin' 'cause I have t' take it t' th' cheese factory. That's
th' reason nobody was up but me. But I see this carriage comin' down
th' road, and thinks I t' myself it was pretty middlin' early fer
anybody t' be takin' a pleasure ride. I 'lowed it were a pleasure ride,
'cause it were one of them hacks that folks don't usually use 'ceptin'
fer a weddin', or a funeral, an' it wa'n't no funeral."

"Then you can't tell us anything more except that it passed?" asked Ned.

"No, I couldn't see inside, 'cause it was rather dark at that hour, and
then, too, I noticed that they had th' window shades down."

"That's suspicious!" exclaimed Tom. "I believe they are the fellows we're
after," and, without giving any particulars he said that they were
looking for a friend who might have been taken away against his will.

"Could you tell where they were going?" asked Tom, scarcely hoping to
get an affirmative answer.

"Wa'al, th' man on th' seat pulled up when he see me," spoke the farmer
with exasperating slowness, "an' asked me how far it was t' th'
Waterville station, an' I told him."

"Why didn't you say so at first?" asked Tom quickly. "Why didn't you
tell us they were heading for the railroad?"

"You didn't ask me," replied the farmer. "What difference does it make."

"Every minute counts!" exclaimed the young inventor. "We want to keep
right after those fellows. Maybe the agent can tell us where they
bought tickets to, and we can trace them that way.

"Shouldn't wonder," commented the farmer. "There ain't many trains out
from Waterville at that time of day, an' mighty few passengers.
Shouldn't wonder but Jake Applesauer could put ye on th' trail."

"Much obliged," called Tom. "Come on, Ned," and he started back in the
direction of the house where the kidnapping had taken place.

"That ain't th' way t' 'vaterville!" the farmer shouted after them.

"I know it, we're going to get our airship," answered Tom, and then he
heard the farmer mutter.

"Plumb crazy! That's what they be! Plumb crazy! Going after their
airship! Shouldn't wonder but they was escaped lunatics, and the other
fellers was keepers after 'em. Hu! Wa'al, I've got my work to do.
'Tain't none of my affair."

"Let him think what he likes," commented Ned as he and his chum hurried
on. "We're on the trail all right."

If Jake Applesauer, the agent at the Waterville station, was surprised
at seeing two youths drop down out of an aeroplane, and begin
questioning him about some suspicious strangers that had taken the
morning train, he did not show it. Jake prided himself on not being
surprised at anything, except once when he took a counterfeit dollar in
return for a ticket, and had to make it good to the company.

But, to the despair of Tom and Ned, he could not help them much. He had
seen the party, of course. They had driven up in the hack, and one of
the men seemed to be sick, or hurt, for his head was done up in
bandages, and the others had to half carry him on the train.

"That was Mr. Petrofsky all right," declared Ned.

"Sure," assented Tom. "They must have hurt and drugged him. But you
can't tell us for what station they bought tickets, Mr. Applesauer?"

"No, for they didn't buy any. They must have had 'em, or else they paid
on the train. One man drove off in the coach, and that's all I know."

As Tom and Ned started back to Shopton in the aeroplane they discussed
what could be done next. A hard task lay before them, and they realized
that.

"They could have gotten off at any station between here and New York,
or even changed to another railroad at the junction," spoke Tom. "It's
going to be a hard job."

"Guess we'll have to get some regular detectives on it," suggested Ned.

"And that's what I'll do," declared the young inventor. "They may be
able to locate Mr. Petrofsky before those spies take him out of this
country. If they don't--it will be too late. I'm going to talk to dad
about it, and if he agrees I'll hire the best private detectives."

Mr. Swift gave his consent when Tom had told the story, and, a day
later, one of the best detectives of a well known agency called on Tom
in Shopton and assumed charge of the case.

The early reports from the detective were quite reassuring. He got on
the trail of the men who had taken Mr. Petrofsky away, and confirmed
the suspicion that they were agents of the Russian police. He trailed
them as far as New York, and there the clews came to an end.

"Whether they are in the big city, which might easily be, or in some of
the nearby towns, will take some time to learn," the detective wrote,
and Tom wired back telling him to keep on searching.

But, as several weeks went by, and no word came, even Tom began to give
up hope, though he did not stop work on the air glider, which was
nearing completion. And then, most unexpectedly a clew came--a clew
from far-off Russia.

Tom got a letter one day--a letter in a strange hand, the stamp and
postmark showing that it had come from the land of the Czar.

"What do you suppose it contains?" asked Ned, who was with his chum
when the communication was received.

"Haven't the least idea; but I'll soon find out."

"Maybe it's from the Russian police, telling you to keep away from
Siberia."

"Maybe," answered Tom absently, for he was reading the missive. "I
say!" he suddenly cried. "This is great! A clew at last, and from St.
Petersburg! Listen to this, Ned!

"This letter is from the head of one of the secret societies over
there, a society that works against the government. It says that Mr.
Petrofsky is being detained a prisoner in a lonely hut on the Atlantic
sea coast, not far from New York--Sandy Hook the letter says--and here
are the very directions how to get there!"

"No!" cried Ned, in disbelief. "How in the world could anybody in
Russia know that."

"It tells here," said Tom. "It's all explained. As soon as the secret
police got Mr. Petrofsky they communicated with the head officials in
St. Petersburg. You know nearly everyone is a spy over there, and the
letter says that Mr. Petrofsky's friends there soon heard the news, and
even about the exact place where he is being held."

"What are they holding him for?" asked Ned.

"That's explained, too. It seems they can't legally take him back until
certain papers are received from his former prison in Siberia, and
those are now on the way. His friends write to me to hasten and rescue
him."

"But how did they ever get your address?"

"That's easy, though you wouldn't think so. It seems, so the letter
explains, that as soon as Mr. Petrofsky got acquainted with us he wrote
to friends in St. Petersburg, giving my address, and telling them, in
case anything ever happened to him, to notify us. You see he suspected
that something might, after he found he was being shadowed that way.

"And it all worked out. As soon as his friends heard that he was
caught, and learned where he was being held, they wrote to me. Hurrah,
Ned! A clew at last! Now to wire the detective--no, hold on, we'll go
there and rescue him ourselves! We'll go in the airship, and pick up
Detective Trivett in New York."

"That's the stuff! I'm with you!"

"Bless my suspender buttons! So am I, whatever it is!" cried Mr. Damon,
entering the room at that moment.




CHAPTER VI

RESCUING MR. PETROFSKY


"We ought to be somewhere near the place now, Tom."

"I think we are, Ned. But you know I'm not going too close in this
airship."

"Bless my silk hat!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I hope we don't have to walk
very far in such a deserted country as this, Tom Swift."

"We'll have to walk a little way, Mr. Damon," replied the young
inventor. "If I go too close to the hut they'll see the airship, and as
those spies probably know that Mr. Petrofsky has been dealing with me,
They'd smell a rat at once, and run away, taking him with them, and
we'd have all our work to do over again."

"That's right," agreed Detective Trivett, who was one of the four in
the airship that was now hovering over the Atlantic coast, about ten
miles below the summer resorts of which Asbury Park was one.

It was only a few hours after Tom had received the letter from Russia
informing him of the whereabouts of the kidnapped Russian, and he had
acted at once.

His father sanctioned the plan of going to the rescue in one of Tom's
several airships and, Mr. Damon, having been on hand, at once agreed to
go. Of course Ned went along, and they had picked up the private
detective in New York, where he was vainly seeking a clew to the
whereabouts of Mr. Petrofsky.

Now the young inventor and his friends were hovering over the sandy
stretch of coast that extends from Sandy Hook down the Atlantic
seaboard. They were looking for a small fishing hamlet on the outskirts
of which, so the Russian letter stated, was situated the lonely hut in
which Mr. Petrofsky was held a prisoner.

"Do you think you can pick it out from a distance, Tom?" asked Mr.
Damon, as the airship floated slowly along. It was not the big one they
intended taking on their trip to Siberia, but it was sufficiently large
to accommodate the four and leave room for Mr. Petrofsky, should they
succeed in rescuing him.

"I think so," answered the young inventor.

In the letter from Russia a comparatively accurate description of the
prisoner's hut had been given, and also some details about his guards.
For there is little goes on in political circles in the realm of the
Czar that is not known either to the spies of the government or those
of the opposition, and the latter had furnished Tom with reliable
information.

"That looks like the place," said Tom at length, when, after peering
steadily through a powerful telescope, during which time Ned steered
the ship, the young inventor "picked up" a fishing settlement. "There
is the big fish house, spoken of in the letter," he went on, "and the
Russians know a lot about fish. That house makes a good landmark. We'll
go down now, before they have a chance to see us."

The others thought this a good idea, and a little later the airship
sank to the ground amid a lonely stretch of sand dunes, about two miles
from the hamlet on the outskirts of which the prison hut was said to be
located.

"Now," said Tom, "we've got to decide on a plan of campaign. It won't
do for all of us to go to the hut and make the rescue. Some one has got
to stay with the airship, to be ready to start it off as soon as we
come back with Mr. Petrofsky--if we do come.

"Then there's no use in me staying here," spoke Detective Trivett. "I
don't know enough even to turn on the gasolene."

"No, it's got to be Ned or me," said the young inventor.

"I'll stay," volunteered Ned quickly, for though he would very much
have liked to be in at the rescue, he realized that his place was in
the airship, as Mr. Damon was not sufficiently familiar with the
machinery to operate it.

Accordingly, after looking to everything to see that it was in working
order, Tom led the advance. It was just getting dusk, and they figured
on getting to the hut after dark.

"Have everything ready for a quick start," Tom said to Ned, "for we may
come back running."

"I will," was the prompt answer, and then, getting their bearings, the
little party set off.

They had to travel over a stretch of sandy waste that ran along the
beach. Back in shore were a few scattered cottages, and not yet opened
for the summer, and on the ocean side was the pounding surf. The hut,
as Tom recalled the directions, lay just beyond a group of stunted
hemlock trees that set a little way back from the ocean, on a bluff
overlooking the sea. It was not near any other building.

Slowly, and avoiding going any nearer the other houses than they could
help, the little party made its way. They had to depend on their own
judgement now, for the minor details of the location of the hut could
not be given in the letter from Russia. In fact the spies themselves,
in writing to their head officers about the matter, had not described
the location in detail.

"That looks like it over there," said Tom at last, when they had gone
about a mile and a half, and saw a lonely hut with a light burning in
it.

Cautiously they approached and, as they drew nearer, they saw that the
light came through the window of a small hut.

"Looks like the place," commented the detective.

"We'll have a look," remarked Tom.

He crept up so he could glance in the window, and no sooner had he
peered in, than he motioned for the others to approach.

Looking under a partly-drawn curtain, Mr. Damon and Mr. Trivett saw the
Russian whom they sought. He was seated at a table, his head bowed on
his hands, and in the room were three men. A rifle stood in one corner,
near one of the guards.

"They're taking no chances," whispered Mr. Damon. "What shall we do,
Tom?"

"It's three to three," replied the young inventor. "But if we can get
him away without a fight, so much the better. I think I have it. I'll
go up to the door, knock and make quite a racket, and demand admittance
in the name of the Czar. That will startle them, and they may all three
rush to answer. Mr. Damon, you and the detective will stay by the
window. As soon as you see the men rush for the door, smash in the
window with a piece of driftwood and call to Mr. Petrofsky to jump out
that way. Then you can run with him toward the airship, and I'll
follow.  It may work."

"I don't see why it wouldn't," declared the detective. "Go ahead, Tom.
We're ready."

Looking in once more, to make sure that the guards were not aware of
the presence of the rescuing party, Tom went to the front door of the
hut.  It was a small building, evidently one used by fishermen.

Tom knocked loudly on the portal, at the same time crying out in a
voice that he strove to make as deep and menacing as possible:

"Open! Open in the name of the Czar!"

Looking through the window, ready to act on the instant, Mr. Damon and
the detective saw the three guards spring to their feet. One remained
near Mr. Petrofsky, who also leaped up.

"Now!" called the detective to his companion. "Smash the window!"

The next instant a big piece of driftwood crashed through the casement,
just as the two men were hurrying to the front door to answer Tom's
summons.

"Mr. Petrofsky! This way!" yelled Mr. Damon, sticking his head in
through the broken sash. "Come out! We've come to save you! Bless my
putty blower, but this is great! Come on!"

For a moment the exile stared at the head thrust through the broken
window, and he listened to Tom's emphatic knocks and demands. Then with
a cry of delight the Russian sprang for the open casement, while the
guard that had remained near him made a leap to catch him, crying out:

"Betrayed! Betrayed! It's the Nihilists! Look out, comrades!"




CHAPTER VII

THE AIR GLIDER


Mr. Damon continued to hammer away at the window sash with the piece of
driftwood. There were splinters of the frame and jagged pieces of glass
sticking out, making it dangerous for the exile to slip through.

"Come on! Come on!" the eccentric man continued to call. "Bless my
safety valve! We'll save you! Come on!"

Mr. Petrofsky was leaping across the room, just ahead of the one guard.
The other two were at the open door now, through which Tom could be
seen. Then the spies, realizing in an instant that they had been
deceived, made a dash after their comrade, who had his hand on the
tails of the exile's coat.

"Break away! Break loose!" cried Mr. Damon, who, by this time had
cleared the window so a person could get through. "Don't let them hold
you!"

"I don't intend to!" retorted Mr. Petrofsky, and he swerved suddenly,
tearing his coat, from the grasp of the guard.

In another instant the exile was at the casement, and was being helped
through by Mr. Damon, and there was need of it, for the three guards
were there now, doing their best to keep their prisoner.

"Pull away! Pull away!" cried Mr. Damon.

"We'll help you!" shouted Tom, who, now that his trick had worked, had
sped around to the other side of the hut.

"Don't be afraid, we're with you!" exclaimed the detective, who was
with the young inventor.

"Grab him! Keep him! Hold him!" fairly screamed the rearmost of the
three guards. "It is a plot of the Nihilists to rescue him. Shoot him,
comrades. He must not get away!"

"Don't you try any of your shooting games, or I'll take a hand in it!"
shouted the detective, and, at the same moment he drew his revolver and
fired harmlessly in the air.

"A bomb! A bomb!", yelled the guards in terror.

"Not yet, but there may be!" murmured Tom. The firing of the shot
produced a good effect, for the three men who were trying to detain
Ivan Petrofsky at once fell back from the window and gave him just the
chance needed. He scrambled through, with the aid of Mr. Damon, and
before the guards could again spring at him, which they did when the
echoes of the shot had died away. They had realized, too late, that it
was not a bomb, and that there was no immediate danger for them.

"Come on!" cried Tom. "Make for the airship! We've got to get the start
of them!"

Leading the way, he sprinted toward the road that led to the place
where the airship awaited them. He was followed by Mr. Damon and the
detective, who had Mr. Petrofsky between them.

"Are you all right?" Tom called back to the exile. "Are you hurt? Can
you run?"

"I'm all right," was the reassuring answer. "Go ahead; But they'll be
right after us."

"Maybe they'll stop when they see this," remarked the detective
significantly, and he held his revolver so that the rays of the
newly-risen moon glinted on it.

"Here they come!" cried Tom a moment later, as three figures, one after
the other, came around the corner of the house. They had not taken the
shorter route through the window, as had Mr. Petrofsky, and this gained
a little time for our friends.

"Stop! Hold on!" cried one of the guards in fairly good English. "That
is our prisoner."

"Not any more!" the young inventor yelled back. "He's ours now."

"Look out! They're going to shoot!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my
gunpowder! can't you stop them some way or other, Mr. Detective?"

"The only way is by firing first," answered Mr. Trivett, "and I don't
want to hurt them. Guess I'll fire in the air again."

He did, and the guards halted. They seemed to be holding a
consultation, as Tom learned by glancing hastily back, and he caught
the glisten of some weapon. But if the three men had any notion of
firing they gave it up, and once more came on running. Doubtless they
had orders to get their prisoner back to Russia alive, and did not want
to take any chances of hitting him.

"Leg it!" cried Tom. "Leg it!"

He was well ahead, and wanted the others to catch up to him, but none
of the men was a good runner, and Mr. Petrofsky, by reason of being
rather heavily built, was worse than the other two, so they had to
accommodate their pace to his.

"I wonder if we can make it," mused Tom, as he realized that the
airship was a good distance off yet the guards, though quite a way in
the rear now were coming on fast. "It's going to be a close race,"
thought the young inventor. "I wish we'd brought the airship a little
nearer."

It was indeed a race now, for the guards, seeming to know that they
would not be shot at, were coming on more confidently, and were rapidly
lessening the distance that separated them from their recent prisoner.

"We've got to go faster!" cried Tom.

"Bless my shoe leather!" yelled Mr. Damon. "I can't go any faster."

Still he did make the attempt, and so did the exile and the detective.
Little was said now, for each of the parties was running a dogged race,
and in silence. They had gone possibly half a mile, and the first
advantage of Tom and his friends was rapidly being lost, when suddenly
there sounded in the air above a curious throbbing noise.

"Bless my gasolene! What's that?" cried Mr. Damon.

"The airship! It's the airship!" yelled Tom, as he saw a great dark
shape slowly approaching. "Ned is bringing her to meet us."

"Good!" cried the detective. "We need it I'm about winded!"

"This way, Ned! This way!" cried Tom, and, an instant later, they were
in the midst of a brilliant glow, for Ned had turned the current into
the great searchlight on the bow of the air craft, and the beams were
focused on our friends. Ned could now see the refugees, and in a moment
he sent the graceful craft down, bringing it to a halt on the ground
near Tom.

"In with you!" cried the lad. "She's all ready to start up again!"

"Come on!" yelled Tom to the others. "We're all right now, if you
hustle!"

"Bless my pin cushion!" gasped Mr. Damon, making a final spurt.

The three guards had halted in confusion on seeing the big, black bulk
of the airship, and when they noted the gleaming of the searchlight
they must have realized that their chances were gone. They made a rush,
however, but it was too late. Over the side of the craft scrambled Tom,
Mr. Damon, the detective and Ivan Petrofsky, and an instant later Ned
had sent it aloft. The race was over, and the young inventor and his
friends had won.

"You're the stuff!" cried Tom to Ned, as he went with his chum to the
pilot house to direct the progress of the airship. "It's lucky you came
for us. We never could have made the distance. We left the ship too far
off."

"That's what I thought after you'd gone," replied his chum. "So I
decided to come and meet you. I had to go slowly so as not to pass you
in the darkness."

They were speeding off now, and Ned, turning the beams of the great
searchlight below them, picked up the three guards who were gazing
helplessly aloft after their fast disappearing prisoner.

"You're having your first ride in an airship, Mr. Petrofsky," remarked
Tom, when they had gone on for some little distance. "How do you like
it?"

"I'm so excited I hardly know, but it's quite a sensation. But how in
the world did you ever find me to rescue me?"

Then they told the story of their search, and the unexpected clew from
Russia. In turn the exile told how he had been attacked at the
breakfast table one morning by the three spies--the very men who had
been shadowing him--and taken away secretly, being drugged to prevent
his calling for help. He had been kept a close prisoner in the lonely
hut, and each day he had expected to be taken back to serve out his
sentence in Siberia.

"Another day would have been too late," he told Tom, when he had
thanked the young inventor over and over again, "for the papers would
have arrived, and the last obstacle to taking me back to Russia would
have been removed. They dared not take me out of the United States
without official documents, and they would have been forged ones, for
they intended trumping up a criminal charge against me, the political
one not being strong enough to allow them to extradite me."

"Well I'm glad we got you," said Tom heartily. "We will soon be ready
to start for Siberia."

"In this kind of a craft?"

"Yes, only much larger. You'll like it. I only hope my air glider
works."

By putting on speed, Tom was able to reach Shopton before midnight, and
there was quite an informal celebration in the Swift homestead over the
rescue of the exile. The detective, for whom there was no further need,
was paid off, and Mr. Petrofsky was made a member of the household.

"You'd better stay here until we are ready to start," Tom said, "and
then we can keep an eye on you. We need you to show us as nearly as
possible where the platinum field is."

"All right," agreed the Russian with a laugh. "I'm sure I'll do all I
can for you, and you are certainly treating me very nicely after what I
suffered from my captors."

Tom resumed work on his air glider the next day, and he had an
additional helper, for Mr. Petrofsky proved to be a good mechanic.

In brief, the air glider was like an aeroplane save that it had no
motor. It was raised by a strong wind blowing against transverse
planes, and once aloft was held there by the force of the air currents,
just like a box kite is kept up. To make it progress either with or
against the wind, there were horizontal and vertical rudders, and
sliding weights, by which the equilibrium could be shifted so as to
raise or lower it. While it could not exactly move directly against the
wind it could progress in a direction contrary to which the gale was
blowing, somewhat as a sailing ship "tacks."

And, as has been explained, the harder the wind blew the better the air
glider worked. In fact unless there was a strong gale it would not go
up.

"But it will be just what is needed out there in that part of Siberia,"
declared the exile, "for there the wind is never quiet. Often it blows
a regular hurricane."

"That's what we want!" cried Tom. He had made several models of the air
glider, changing them as he found out his errors, and at last he had
hit on the right shape and size.

Midway of the big glider, on which work was now well started, there was
to be an enclosed car for the carrying of passengers, their food and
supplies. Tom figured on carrying five or six.

For several weeks the work on the air glider progressed rapidly, and it
was nearing completion. Meanwhile nothing more had been heard or seen
of the Russian spies.

"Well," announced Tom one night, after a day's hard work, "we'll be
ready for a trial now, just as soon as there comes a good wind."

"Is it all finished?" asked Ned.

"No, but enough for a trial spin. What I want is a big wind now."




CHAPTER VIII

IN A GREAT GALE


There was a humming in the air. The telegraph wires that ran along on
high poles past the house of Tom Swift sung a song like that of an
Aeolian harp. The very house seemed to tremble.

"Jove! This is a wind!" cried Tom as he awakened on a morning a few
days after his air glider was nearly completed. "I never saw it so
strong.  This ought to be just what I want I must telephone to Mr.
Damon and to Ned."

He hustled into his clothes, pausing now and then to look out of his
window and note the effects of the gale. It was a tremendous wind, as
was evidenced by the limbs of several trees being broken off, while in
some cases frail trees themselves had been snapped in twain.

"Coffee ready, Mrs. Baggert?" asked our hero as he went downstairs. "I
haven't got time to eat much though."

In spite of his haste Tom ate a good breakfast and then, having
telephoned to his two friends, and receiving their promises to come
right over, our hero went out to make a few adjustments to his air
glider, to get it in shape for the trial.

He was a little worried lest the wind die out, but when he got outside
he noted with satisfaction that the gale was stronger than at first. In
fact it did considerable damage in Shopton, as Tom learned later.

It certainly was a strong wind. An ordinary aeroplane never could have
sailed in it, and Tom was doubtful of the ability of even his big
airship to navigate in it. But he was not going to try that.

"And maybe my air glider won't work," he remarked to himself as he was
on his way to the shed where it had been constructed. "The models went
up all right, but maybe the big one isn't proportioned right. However,
I'll soon see."

He was busy adjusting the balancing weights when Ned Newton came in.

"Great Scott!" exclaimed the lad, as he labored to close the shed door,
"this is a blow all right, Tom! Do you think it's safe to go up?"

"I can't go up without a gale, Ned."

"Well, I'd think twice about it myself."

"Why, I counted on you going up with me."

"Burr-r-r-r!" and Ned pretended to shiver. "I haven't an accident
insurance policy you know."

"You won't need it, Ned. If we get up at all we'll be all right. Catch
hold there, and shift that rear weight a little forward on the rod. I
expect Mr. Damon soon."

The eccentric man came in a little later, just as Tom and Ned had
finished adjusting the mechanism.

"Bless my socks!" cried Mr. Damon. "Do you really mean to go up to-day,
Tom?"

"I sure do! Why, aren't you going with me?" and Tom winked at Ned.

"Bless my--" began Mr. Damon, and then, evidently realizing that he was
being tested he exclaimed: "Well, I will go, Tom! If the air glider is
any good it ought to hold me. I will go up."

"Now, Ned, how about you?" asked the young inventor.

"Well, I guess it's up to me to come along, but I sure do wish it was
over with," and Ned glanced out of the window to see if the gale was
dying out. But the wind was as high as ever.

It was hard work getting the air glider out of the shed, and in
position on top of a hill, about a quarter of a mile away, for Tom
intended "taking off" from the mound, as he could not get a running
start without a motor. The wind, however, he hoped, would raise him and
the strange craft.

In order to get it over the ground without having it capsize, or
elevate before they were ready for it, drag ropes, attached to bags of
sand were used, and once these were attached the four found that they
could not wheel the air glider along on its bicycle wheels.

"We'll have to get Eradicate and his mule, I guess," said Tom, after a
vain endeavor to make progress against the wind. "When it's up in the
air it will be all right, but until then I'll need help to move it.
Ned, call Rad, will you?"

The colored man, with Boomerang, his faithful mule, was soon on hand.
The animal was hitched to the glider, and pulled it toward the hill.

"Now to see what happens," remarked Tom as he wheeled his latest
invention around where the wind would take it as soon as the
restraining ropes were cast off, for it was now held in place by
several heavy cables fastened to stakes driven in the ground.

Tom gave a last careful look to the weights, planes and rudders. He
glanced at a small anemometer or wind gage, on the craft, and noted
that it registered sixty miles an hour.

"That ought to do," he remarked. "Now who's going up with me? Will you
take a chance, Mr. Petrofsky?"

"I'd rather not--at first."

"Come on then, Ned and Mr. Damon. Mr. Petrofsky and Rad can cast off
the ropes."

The wind, if anything, was stronger than ever. It was a terrific gale,
and just what was needed. But how would the air glider act? That was
what Tom wanted very much to know.

"Cast off!" he cried to the Russian and Eradicate, and they slipped the
ropes.

The next moment, with a rush and whizzing roar, the air glider shot
aloft on the wings of the wind.




CHAPTER IX

THE SPIES


"We're certainly going up!" yelled Ned, as he sat beside Tom in the
cabin of the air glider.

"That's right!" agreed the young inventor rather proudly, as he grasped
two levers, one of which steered the craft, the other being used to
shift the weights. "We're going up. I was pretty sure of that. The next
thing is to see if it will remain stationary in the air, and answer the
rudder."

"Bless my top knot!" cried Mr. Damon. "You don't mean to tell me you
can stand still in a gale of wind, Tom Swift."

"That's exactly what I do mean. You can't do it in an aeroplane, for
that depends on motion to keep itself up in the air. But the glider is
different. That's one of its specialties, remaining still, and that's
why it will be valuable if we ever get to Siberia. We can hover over a
certain spot in a gale of wind, and search about below with telescopes
for a sign of the lost platinum mine.

"How high are you going up?" demanded Ned, for the air glider was still
mounting upward on a slant. If you ever scaled a flat piece of tin, or
a stone, you'll remember how it seems to slide up a hill of air, when
it was thrown at the right angle. It was just this way with the air
glider--it was mounting upward on a slant.

"I'm going up a couple of hundred feet at least," answered Tom, "and
higher if the gale-strata is there. I want to give it a good test while
I'm at it."

Ned looked down through a heavy plate of glass in the floor of the
cabin, and could see Mr. Petrofsky and Eradicate looking up at them.

"Bless my handkerchief!" cried Mr. Damon, when his attention had been
called to this. "It's just like an airship."

"Except that we haven't a bit of machinery on board," said Tom. "These
weights do everything," and he shifted them forward on the sliding
rods, with the effect that the air glider dipped down with a startling
lurch.

"We're falling!" cried Ned.

"Not a bit of it," answered Tom. "I only showed you how it worked. By
sliding the weights back we go up."

He demonstrated this at once, sending his craft sliding up another hill
of air, until it reached an elevation of four hundred feet, as
evidenced by the barograph.

"I guess this is high enough," remarked Tom after a bit. "Now to see if
she'll stand still."

Slowly he moved the weights along, by means of the compound levers,
until the air glider was on an "even keel" so to speak. It was still
moving forward, with the wind now, for Tom had warped his wing tips.

"The thing to do," said the young inventor, "is to get it exactly
parallel with the wind-strata, so that the gale will blow through the
two sets of planes, just as the wind blows through a box kite. Only we
have no string to hold us from moving. We have to depend on the
equalization of friction on the surfaces of the wings. I wonder if I
can do it."

It was a delicate operation, and Tom had not had much experience in
that sort of thing, for his other airships and aeroplanes worked on an
entirely different principle. But he moved the weights along, inch by
inch, and flexed the tips, planes and rudders until finally Ned, who
was looking down through the floor window, cried out:

"We're stationary!"

"Good!" exclaimed Tom. "Then it's a success."

"And we can go to Siberia?" added Mr. Damon.

"Sure," assented the young inventor. "And if we have luck we'll rescue
Mr. Petrofsky's brother, and get a lot of platinum that will be more
valuable than gold."

It would not be true to say that the air glider was absolutely
stationary. There was a slight forward motion, due to the fact that it
was not yet perfected, and also because Tom was not expert enough in
handling it.

The friction on the plane surfaces was not equalized, and the gale
forced the craft along slightly. But, compared to the terrific power of
the wind, the air glider was practically at a standstill, and this was
remarkable when one considers the force of the hurricane that was
blowing above, below and through it.

For actually that was what the hurricane was doing. It was as if an
immense box kite was suspended in the air, without a string to hold it
from moving, and as though a cabin was placed amidships to hold human
beings.

"This sure is great!" cried Ned. "Have you got her in control, Tom?"

"I think so. I'll try and see how she works."

By shifting the weights, changing the balance, and warping the wings,
the young inventor sent the craft higher up, made it dip down almost to
the earth, and then swoop upward like some great bird. Then he turned
it completely about and though he developed no great speed in this test
made it progress quarteringly against the wind.

"It's almost perfect," declared Tom. "A few touches and she'll be all
right."

"Is it all right?" asked Ivan Petrofsky anxiously, as the three left
the cabin, and Eradicate hitched his mule to the glider to take it back
to the shed.

"I see where it can be improved," he said, as they made ready to
descend. "I'll soon have it in shape."

"Then we can go to Siberia?"

"In less than a month. The big airship needs some repairs, and then
we'll be off."

The Russian said nothing, but he looked his thanks to Tom, and the
manner in which he grasped the hand of our hero showed his deep
feelings.

The glider was given several more trials, and each time it worked
better. Tom decided to change some of the weights, and he devoted all
his time to this alteration, while Ned, Mr. Damon, and the others
labored to get the big airship in shape for the long trip to the land
of the exiles.

So anxious was Tom to get started, that he put in several nights
working on the glider. Ned occasionally came over to help him, while
Mr. Damon was on hand as often as his wife would allow. Mr. Petrofsky
spent his nights writing to friends in Russia, hoping to get some clew
as to the whereabouts of his brother.

It was on one of these nights, when Tom and Ned were laboring hard,
with Eradicate to help them that an incident occurred which worried
them all not a little. Tom was adjusting some of the new weights on the
sliding rods, and called to Ned:

"I say, old man, hand me that big monkey wrench, will you. I can't
loosen this nut with the small one. You'll find it on the bench by that
back window."

As Ned went to get the tool he looked from the casement. He started,
stood staring through the glass for a moment into the outer darkness,
and then cried out:

"Tom, we're being watched! There are some spies outside!"

"What?" exclaimed the young inventor "Where are they? Who are they?"

"I don't know. Those Russian police, maybe out front, and maybe we can
catch them!"

Grabbing up the big monkey wrench, Ned made a dash for the large
sliding doors, followed by Tom who had an iron bar, and Eradicate with
a small pair of pliers.

"By golly!" cried the colored man, "ef I gits 'em I'll pinch dere noses
off!"




CHAPTER X

OFF IN THE AIRSHIP


Going from the brightly lighted shop into the darkness of the night,
illuminated as it was only by the stars, neither Tom, Ned, nor
Eradicate, could see anything at first. They had to stand still for a
moment to accustom their eyes to the gloom.

"Can you see them?" cried Tom to his chum.

"No, but I can hear them! Over this way!" yelled Ned, and then, being
able to dimly make out objects, so he would not run into them, he
started off, followed by the young inventor.

Tom could hear several persons running away now, but he could see no
one, and from the sound he judged that the spies, if such they were,
were hurrying across the fields that surrounded the shop.

It was almost a hopeless task to pursue them, but the two lads were not
the kind that give up. They rushed forward, hoping to be able to
grapple with those who had looked in the shop window, but it was not to
be.

The sound of the retreating footsteps became more and more faint, until
finally they gave no clew to follow.

"Better stop," advised Tom. "No telling where we'll end up if we keep
on running. Besides it might be dangerous."

"Dangerous; how?" panted Ned.

"They might dodge around, and wait for us behind some tree or bush."

"An' ef dat Foger feller am around he jest as soon as not fetch one ob
us a whack in de head," commented Eradicate grimly.

"Guess you're about right," admitted Ned. "There isn't much use keeping
on. We'll go back."

"What sort of fellows were they?" asked Tom, when, after a little
further search, the hunt was given up. "Could you see them well, Ned?"

"Not very good. Just as I went to get you that wrench I noticed two
faces looking in the window. I must have taken them by surprise, for
they dodged down in an instant. Then I yelled, and they ran off."

"Did you see Andy Foger?"

"No, I didn't notice him."

"Was either of them one of the spies who had Mr. Petrofsky in the hut?"

"I didn't see those fellows very well, you remember, so I couldn't say."

"That's so, but I'll bet that's who they were."

"What do you think they're after, Tom?"

"One of two things. They either want to get our Russian friend into
their clutches again, or they're after me--to try to stop me from going
to Siberia."

"Do you think they'd go to such length as that?"

"I'm almost sure they would. Those Russian police are wrong, of course,
but they think Mr. Petrofsky is an Anarchist or something like that,
and they think they're justified in doing anything to get him back to
the Siberian mines. And once the Russian government sets out to do a
thing it generally does it--I'll give 'em credit for that."

"But how do you suppose they know you're going to Russia?"

"Say, those fellows have ways of getting information you and I would
never dream of. Why, didn't you read the other day how some fellow who
was supposed to be one of the worst Anarchists ever, high up in making
bombs, plotting, and all that sort of thing--turned out to be a police
spy? They get their information that way. I shouldn't be surprised but
what some of the very people whom Mr. Petrofsky thinks are his friends
are spies, and they send word to headquarters of every move he makes."

"Why don't you warn him?"

"He knows it as well as I do. The trouble is you can't tell who the
spies are until it's too late. I'm glad I'm not mixed up in that sort
of thing. If I can get to Siberia, help Mr. Petrofsky rescue his
brother, and get hold of some of that platinum I'll be satisfied. Then
I won't go back to the land of the Czar, once I get away from there."

"That's right. Well, let's go back and work on the glider."

"And we'll have Eradicate patrolling about the shop to make sure we're
not spied on again."

"By golly! Ef I sees any oh 'em, I suah will pinch 'em!" cried the
colored man, as he clicked the pliers.

But there was no further disturbance that night, and, when Tom and Ned
ceased work, they had made good progress toward finishing the air
glider.

The big airship was almost ready to be given a trial flight, with her
motors tuned up to give more power, and as soon as the Russian exile
had a little more definite information as to the possible whereabouts
of his brother, they could start.

In the days that followed Tom and his friends worked hard. The air
glider was made as nearly perfect as any machine is, and in a fairly
stiff gale, that blew up about a week later, Tom did some things in it
that made his friends open their eyes. The young inventor had it under
nearly as good control as he had his dirigible balloons or aeroplanes.

The big airship, too, was made ready for the long voyage, extra large
storage tanks for gasolene being built in, as it was doubtful if they
could get a supply in Siberia without arranging for it in advance, and
this they did not want to do. Besides there was the long ocean flight
to provide for.

"But if worst comes to worst I can burn kerosene in my motor," Tom
explained, for he had perfected an attachment to this end. "You can get
kerosene almost anywhere in Russia."

At last word was received from Russia, from some Revolutionist friends
of the exile, stating that his brother was supposed to be working in a
certain sulphur mine north of the Iablonnoi mountains, and half way
between that range and the city of Iakutsk.

"But it might be a salt mine, just as well," said Mr. Petrofsky, when
he told the boys the news. "Information about the poor exiles is hard
to get."

"Well, we'll take a chance!" cried Tom determinedly.

The preparations went on, and by strict watchfulness none of the spies
secured admission to the shop where the air glider was being finished.
The big airship was gotten in shape for the voyage, and then, after a
final trial of the glider, it was taken apart and put aboard the
Falcon, ready for use on the gale-swept plains of Siberia.

The last of the stores, provisions and supplies were put in the big car
of the airship, a route had been carefully mapped out, and Tom, after
saying good-bye to Mary Nestor, his father, the housekeeper, and
Eradicate, took his place in the pilot house of the airship one
pleasant morning at the beginning of Summer.

"Don't you wish you were going, Rad?" the young inventor asked, for the
colored man had decided to stay at home.

"No indeedy, Massa Tom," was the answer. "Dat's a mighty cold country
in Shebeara, an' I laik warm wedder."

"Well, take care of yourself and Boomerang," answered Tom with a laugh.
Then he pulled the lever that sent a supply of gas into the big bag,
and the ship began to rise.

"I guess we've given those spies the slip," remarked Ned, as they rose
from the ground calling good-byes to the friends they left behind.

"I hope so," agreed Tom, but could he have seen two men, of sinister
looks, peering at the slowly-moving airship from the shelter of a glove
of trees, not far off, he might have changed his opinion, and so would
Ned.

Then, as the airship gathered momentum, it fairly sprang into the air,
and a moment later, the big propellers began revolving. They were off
on their long voyage to find the lost platinum mine, and rescue the
exile of Siberia.




CHAPTER XI

A STORM AT SEA


Tom had the choice of two routes in making his voyage to far-off
Siberia. He could have crossed the United States, sailed over the
Pacific ocean, and approached the land of the Czar from the western
coast above Manchuria. But he preferred to take the Atlantic route,
crossing Europe, and so sailing over Russia proper to get to his
destination. There were several reasons for this.

The water voyage was somewhat shorter, and this was an important
consideration when there was no telling when he might have an accident
that would compel him to descend. On the Atlantic he knew there would
be more ships to render assistance if it was needed, although he hoped
he would not have to ask for it.

"Then, too," he said to Ned, when they were discussing the matter, "we
will have a chance to see some civilized countries if we cross Europe,
and we may land near Paris."

"Paris!" cried Ned. "What for?"

"To renew our supply of gasolene, for one thing," replied the young
inventor. "Not that we will be out when we arrive, but if we take on
more there we may not have to get any in Russia. Besides, they have a
very good quality in France, so all told, I think the route over Europe
to be the best."

Ned agreed with him, and so did Mr. Petrofsky. As for Mr. Damon, he was
so busy getting his sleeping room in order, and blessing everything he
could think of, that he did not have time to talk much. So the eastern
route was decided on, and as the big airship, carrying our friends,
their supplies, and the wonderful air glider rose higher and higher,
Tom gradually brought her around so that the pointed nose of the gas
bag aimed straight across the Atlantic.

They were over the ocean on the second day out, for Tom did not push
the craft to her limit of speed, now they had time to consider matters
at their leisure, for they had been rather hurried on leaving.

The machinery was working as nearly to perfection as it could be
brought, and Tom, after finding out that his craft would answer equally
well as a dirigible balloon or an aeroplane, let it sail along as the
latter.

"For," he said, "we have a long trip ahead of us and we need to save
all the elevating gas we can save. If worst comes to worst, and we
can't navigate as an aeroplane any more, we can even drift along as a
dirigible. But while we have the gasolene we might as well make speed
and be an aeroplane."

The others agreed with him, and so it was arranged. Tom, when he had
seen to it that his craft was working well, let Ned take charge and
devoted himself to seeing that all the stores and supplies were in
order for quick use.

Of course, until they were nearer the land of the Czar, and that part
of Siberia where Mr. Petrofsky's brother was held as an exile, they
could do little save make themselves as comfortable as possible in the
airship. And this was not hard to do.

Naturally, in a craft that had to carry a heavy load, and lift itself
into the air, as well as propel itself along, not many things could be
taken. Every ounce counted. Still our friends were not without their
comforts. There was a well stocked kitchen, and Mr. Damon insisted on
installing himself as cook. This had been Eradicate's work but the
eccentric man knew how to do almost everything from making soup to
roasting a chicken, and he liked it. So he was allowed free run of the
galley.

Tom and Ned spent much time in the steering tower or engine room, for,
though all of the machinery was automatic, there was need of almost
constant attention, though there was an arrangement whereby in case of
emergency, the airship would steer herself in any set direction for a
certain number of hours.

There were ample sleeping quarters for six persons, a living room and a
dining saloon. In short the Falcon was much like Tom's Red Cloud, only
bigger and better. There was even a phonograph on board so that music,
songs, and recitations could be enjoyed.

"Bless my napkin! but this is great!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, about noon
of the second day, when they had just finished dinner and looked down
through the glass windows in the bottom of the cabin at the rolling
ocean below them. "I don't believe many persons have such opportunities
as we have."

"I'm sure they do not," added Mr. Petrofsky. "I can hardly think it
true, that I am on my way back to Siberia to rescue my dear brother."

"And such good weather as we're having," spoke Ned. "I'm glad we didn't
start off in a storm, for I don't exactly like them when we're over the
water."

"We may get one yet," said Tom. "I don't just like the way the
barometer is acting. It's falling pretty fast."

"Bless my mercury tube!" cried Mr. Damon. "I hope we have no bad luck
on this trip."

"Oh, we can't help a storm or two," answered Tom. "I guess it won't do
any harm to prepare for it."

So everything was made snug, and movable articles on the small exposed
deck of the airship were lashed fast. Then, as night settled down, our
friends gathered about in the cheerful cabin, in the light of the
electric lamps, and talked of what lay before them.

As Mr. Damon could steer as well as Tom or Ned, he shared in the night
watch. But Mr. Petrofsky was not expert enough to accept this
responsibility.

It was when Mr. Damon finished his watch at midnight, and called Tom,
that he remarked.

"Bless my umbrella, Tom. But I don't like the looks of the weather."

"Why, what's it doing?"

"It isn't doing anything, but it's clouding up and the barometer is
going down."

"I was afraid we were in for it," answered the young inventor. "Well,
we'll have to take what comes."

The airship plunged on her way, while her young pilot looked at the
various gages, noting that to hold her way against the wind that had
risen he would have to increase the speed of the motor.

"I don't like it," murmured Tom, "I don't like it," and he shook his
head dubiously.

With a suddenness that was almost terrifying, the storm broke over the
ocean about three o'clock that morning. There was a terrific clap of
thunder, a flash of lighting, and a deluge of rain that fairly made the
staunch Falcon stagger, high in the air as she was.

"Come on, Ned!" cried Tom, as he pressed the electric alarm bell
connected with his chum's berth. "I need you, and Mr. Damon, too."

"What's the matter?" cried Ned, awakened suddenly from a sound sleep.

"We're in a bad storm," answered Tom, "and I'll have to have help. We
need more gas, to try and rise above it."

"Bless my hanging lamp!" cried Mr. Damon, "I hope nothing happens!"

And he jumped from his berth as the Falcon plunged and staggered
through the storm that was lashing the ocean below her into white
billow of foam.




CHAPTER XII

AN ACCIDENT


For a few moments it seemed as if the Falcon would surely turn turtle
and plunge into the seething ocean. The storm had burst with such
suddenness that Tom, who was piloting his air craft, was taken
unawares.  He had not been using much power or the airship would have
been better able to weather the blast that burst with such fury over
her. But as it was, merely drifting along, she was almost like a great
sheet of paper.  Down she was forced, until the high-flying spray from
the waves actually wet the lower part of the car, and Ned, looking
through one of the glass windows, saw, in the darkness, the
phosphorescent gleam of the water so near to them.

"Tom!" he cried in alarm. "We're sinking!"

"Bless my bath sponge! Don't say that!" gasped Mr. Damon.

"That's why I called you," yelled the young inventor. "We've got to
rise above the storm if possible. Go to the gas machine, Ned, and turn
it on full strength. I'll speed up the motor, and we may be able to cut
up that way. But get the gas on as soon as you can. The bag is only
about half full. Force in all you can!

"Mr. Damon, can you take the wheel? It doesn't make any difference
which way we go as long as you keep her before the wind, and yank back
the elevating rudder as far as she'll go! We must head up."

"All right, Tom," answered the eccentric man, as he fairly jumped to
take the place of the young inventor at the helm.

"Can I do anything?" asked the Russian, as Tom raced for the engine
room, to speed the motor up to the last notch.

"I guess not. Everything is covered, unless you want to help Mr. Damon.
In this blow it will be hard to work the rudder levers."

"All right," replied Ivan Petrofsky, and then there came another
sickening roll of the airship, that threatened to turn her completely
over.

"Lively!" yelled Tom, clinging to various supports as he made his way
to the engine room. "Lively, all hands, or we'll be awash in another
minute!"

And indeed it seemed that this might be so, for with the wind forcing
her down, and the hungry waves leaping up, as if to clutch her to
themselves, the Falcon was having anything but an easy time of it.

It was the work of but an instant however, when Tom reached the engine
room, to jerk the accelerator lever toward him, and the motor responded
at once. With a low, humming whine the wheels and gears redoubled their
speed, and the great propellers beat the air with fiercer strokes.

At the same time Tom heard the hiss of the gas as it rushed into the
envelope from the generating machine, as Ned opened the release valve.

"Now we ought to go up," the young inventor murmured, as he anxiously
watched the barograph, and noted the position of the swinging pendulum
which told of the roll and dip of the air craft.

For a moment she hung in the balance, neither the increased speed of
the propellers, nor the force of the gas having any seeming effect. Mr.
Damon and the Russian, clinging to the rudder levers, to avoid being
dashed against the sides of the pilot house, held them as far back as
they could, to gain the full power of the elevation planes. But even
this seemed to do no good.

The power of the gale was such, that, even with the motor and gas
machine working to their limit, the Falcon only held her own. She swept
along, barely missing the crests of the giant waves.

"She's got to go up! She's got to go up!" cried Tom desperately, as if
by very will power he could send her aloft. And then, when there came a
lull in the fierce blowing of the wind, the elevation rudder took hold,
and like a bird that sees the danger below, and flies toward the
clouds, the airship shot up suddenly.

"That's it!" cried Tom in relief, as he noted the needle of the
barograph swinging over, indicating an ever-increasing height. "Now
we're safe."

They were not quite yet, but at last the power of machinery had
prevailed over that of the elements. Through the pelting rain, and amid
the glare of the lightning, and the thunder of heaven's artillery, the
airship forced her way, up and up and up.

Setting the motor controller to give the maximum power until he
released it, Tom hastened to the gas-generating apparatus. He found Ned
attending to it, so that it was now working satisfactorily.

"How about it, Tom?" cried his chum anxiously.

"All right now, Ned, but it was a close shave! I thought we were done
for, platinum mine, rescue of exiles, and all."

"So did I. Shall I keep on with the gas?"

"Yes, until the indicator shows that the bag is full. I'm going to the
pilot house."

Running there, Tom found that Mr. Damon and the Russian had about all
they could manage. The young inventor helped them and then, when the
Falcon was well started on her upward course, Tom set the automatic
steering machine, and they had a breathing spell.

To get above the sweep of the blast was no easy task, for the wind
strata seemed to be several miles high, and Tom did not want to risk an
accident by going to such an elevation. So, when having gone up about a
mile, he found a comparatively calm area he held to that, and the
Falcon sped along with the occupants feeling fairly comfortable, for
there was no longer that rolling and tumbling motion.

The storm kept up all night, but the danger was practically over,
unless something should happen to the machinery, and Tom and Ned kept
careful watch to prevent this. In the morning they could look down on
the storm-swept ocean below them, and there was a feeling of
thankfulness in their hearts that they were not engulfed in it.

"This is a pretty hard initiation for an amateur," remarked Mr.
Petrofsky. "I never imagined I should be as brave as this in an airship
in a storm."

"Oh, you can get used to almost anything," commented Mr. Damon.

It was three days before the storm blew itself out and then came
pleasant weather, during which the Falcon flew rapidly along. Our
friends busied themselves about many things, talked of what lay before
them, and made such plans as they could.

It was the evening of the fifth day, and they expected to sight the
coast of France in the morning. Tom was in the pilot house, setting the
course for the night run, and Ned had gone to the engine room to look
after the oiling of the motor.

Hardly had he reached the compartment than there was a loud report, a
brilliant flash of fire, and the machinery stopped dead.

"What is it?" cried Tom, as he came in on the run, for the indicators
in the pilot house had told him something was wrong.

"An accident!" cried Ned. "A breakdown, Tom! What shall we do?"




CHAPTER XIII

SEEKING A QUARREL


There was an ominous silence in the engine room, following the flash
and the report. The young inventor took in every bit of machinery in a
quick glance, and he saw at once that the main dynamo and magneto had
short-circuited, and gone out of commission. Almost instantly the
airship began to sink, for the propellers had ceased revolving.

"Bless my barograph!" cried Mr. Damon, appearing on the scene. "We're
sinking, Tom!"

"It's all right," answered our hero calmly. "It's a bad accident, and
may delay us, but there's no danger. Ned, start up the gas machine,"
for they were progressing as an aeroplane then. "Start that up, and
we'll drift along as a dirigible."

"Of course! Why didn't I think of that!" exclaimed Ned, somewhat
provoked at his own want of thought. The airship was going down
rapidly, but it was the work of but a moment to start the generator,
and then the earthward motion was checked.

"We'll have to take our chance of being blown to France," remarked Tom,
as he went over to look at the broken electrical machinery. "But we
ought to fetch the coast by morning with this wind. Lucky it's blowing
our way."

"Then you can't use the propellers?" asked Mr. Petrofsky.

"No," replied Tom, "but if we get to France I can easily repair this
break. It's the platinum bearings again. I do hope we'll locate that
lost mine, for I need a supply of good reliable metal.

"Then we'll have to land in France?" asked the Russian, and he seemed a
trifle uneasy.

"Yes," answered Tom. "Don't you want to?"

"Well, I was thinking of our safety."

"Bless my silk hat!" cried Mr. Damon. "Where is the danger of landing
there? I rather hoped we could spend some time in Paris."

"There is no particular danger, unless it becomes known that I am an
escaped exile, and that we are on our way to Siberia to rescue another
one, and try to find the platinum mine. Then we would be in danger."

"But how are they to know it?" asked Ned, who had come back from the
gas machine.

"France, especially in Paris and the larger cities, is a hot-bed of
political spies," answered Mr. Petrofsky. "Russia has many there on the
secret police, and while the objectors to the Czar's government are
also there, they could do little to help us."

"I guess they won't find out about us unless we give it away," was
Tom's opinion.

"I'm afraid they will," was the reply of the Russian. "Undoubtedly word
has been cabled by the spies who annoyed us in Shopton, that we are on
our way over here. Of course they can't tell where we might land, but
as soon as we do land the news will be flashed all over, and the word
will come back that we are enemies of Russia. You can guess the rest."

"Then let's go somewhere else," suggested Mr. Damon.

"It would be the same anywhere in Europe," replied Ivan Petrofsky.
"There are spies in all the large centres."

"Well, I've got to go to Paris, or some large city to get the parts I
need," said Tom. "Unfortunately I didn't bring any along for the dynamo
and magneto, as I should have done, and I can't get the necessary
pieces in a small town. I'll have to depend on some big machine shop.
But we might land in some little-frequented place, and I could go in to
town alone."

"That might answer," spoke the Russian, and it was decided to try that.

Meanwhile it was somewhat doubtful whether they would reach France, for
they were dependent on the wind. But it seemed to be blowing steadily
in the desired direction, and Tom noted with satisfaction that their
progress was comparatively fast. He tried to repair the broken
machinery but found that he could not, though he spent much of the
night over it.

"Hurrah!" cried Ned when morning came, and he had taken an observation.
"There's some kind of land over there."

The wind freshened while they were at breakfast and using more gas so
as to raise them higher Tom directed the course of his airship as best
he could. He wanted to get high enough so that if they passed over a
city they would not be observed.

At noon it could be seen through the glass that they were over the
outskirts of some large place, and after the Russian had taken an
observation he exclaimed:

"The environs of Paris! We must not land there!"

"We won't, if the wind holds out," remarked Tom and this good fortune
came to them. They succeeded in landing in a field not far from a small
village, and though several farmers wondered much as the sight of the
big airship, it was thought by the platinum-seekers that they would be
comparatively safe.

"Now to get the first train for Paris and get the things I need,"
exclaimed Tom. He set to work taking off the broken pieces that they
might be duplicated, and then, having inquired at an inn for the
nearest railroad station, and having hired a rig, the young inventor
set off.

"Can you speak French?" asked Mr. Petrofsky. "If not I might be of
service, but if I go to Paris I might be----"

"Never mind," interrupted Tom. "I guess I can parley enough to get
along with."

He had a small knowledge of the tongue, and with that, and knowing that
English was spoken in many places, he felt that he could make out. And
indeed he had no trouble. He easily found his way about the gay
capital, and located a machine shop where a specialty was made of parts
for automobile and airship motors. The proprietor, knowing the broken
pieces belonged to an aeroplane, questioned Tom about his craft but the
young inventor knew better than to give any clew that might make
trouble, so he returned evasive answers.

It was nearly night when he got back to the place where he had left the
Falcon, and he found a curious crowd of rustics grouped about it.

"Has anything happened?" he asked of his friends.

"No, everything is quiet, I'm glad to say," replied Mr. Petrofsky. "I
don't think our presence will create stir enough so that the news of it
will reach the spies in Paris. Still I will feel easier when we're in
the air again."

"It will take a day to make the repairs," said Tom, "and put in the new
pieces of platinum. But I'll work as fast as I can."

He and Ned labored far into the night, and were at it again the next
morning. Mr. Damon and the Russian were of no service for they did not
understand the machinery well enough. It was while Tom was outside the
craft, filing a piece of platinum in an improvised vise, that a
poorly-clothed man sauntered up and watched him curiously. Tom glanced
at him, and was at once struck by a difference between the man's attire
and his person.

For, though he was tattered and torn, the man's face showed a certain
refinement, and his hands were not those of a farmer or laborer in
which character he obviously posed.

"Monsieur has a fine airship there," he remarked to Tom.

"Oh, yes, it'll do." Tom did not want to encourage conversation.

"Doubtless from America it comes?"

The man spoke English but with an accent, and certain peculiarities.

"Maybe so," replied the young inventor.

"Is it permit to inspect the interior?"

"No, it isn't," came from Tom shortly. He had hurt his finger with the
file, and he was not in the best of humor.

"Ah, there are secrets then?" persisted the stranger.

"Yes!" said Tom shortly. "I wish you wouldn't bother me. I'm busy,
can't you see."

"Ah, does monsieur mean that I have poor eyesight?"

The question was snapped out so suddenly, and with such a menacing tone
that Tom glanced up quickly. He was surprised at the look in the man's
eyes.

"Just as you choose to take it," was the cool answer. "I don't know
anything about your eyes, but I know I've got work to do."

"Monsieur is insulting!" rasped out the seeming farmer. "He is not
polite. He is not a Frenchman."

"Now that'll do!" cried Tom, thoroughly aroused. "I don't want to be
too short with you, but I've really got to get this done. One side, if
you please," and having finished what he was doing, he started toward
the airship.

Whether in his haste Tom did not notice where he was going, or whether
the man deliberately got in his way I cannot say, but at any rate they
collided and the seeming farmer went spinning to one side, falling down.

"Monsieur has struck me! I am insulted! You shall pay for this!" he
cried, jumping to his feet, and making a rush for our hero.

"All right. It was your own fault for bothering me but if you want
anything I'll give it to you!" cried Tom, striking a position of
defense.

The man was about to rush at him, and there would have been a fight in
another minute, had not Mr. Petrofsky, stepping to the open window of
the pilot house, called out:

"Tom! Tom! Come here, quick. Never mind him!"

Swinging away from the man, the young inventor rushed toward the
airship. As he entered the pilot house he noticed that his late
questioner was racing off in the direction of the village.

"What is it? What's the matter?" he asked of the Russian. "Is something
more wrong with the airship?"

"No, I just wanted to get you away from that man.

"Oh, I could take care of myself."

"I know that, but don't you see what his game was? I listened to him.
He was seeking a quarrel with you."

"A quarrel?"

"Yes. He is a police spy. He wanted to get you into a fight and then he
and you would be arrested by the local authorities. They'd clap you
into jail, and hold us all here. It's a game! They suspect us, Tom! The
Russian spies have had some word of our presence! We must get away as
quickly as we can!"




CHAPTER XIV

HURRIED FLIGHT


The announcement of Ivan Petrofsky came to Tom with startling
suddenness. He could say nothing for a moment, and then, as he realized
what it meant, and as he recalled the strange appearance and actions of
the man, he understood the danger.

"Was he a spy?" he asked.

"I'm almost sure he was," came the answer. "He isn't one of the
villagers, that's sure, and he isn't a tourist. No one else would be in
this little out-of-the-way place but a police official. He is in
disguise, that is certain."

"I believe so," agreed Tom. "But what was his game?"

"We are suspected," replied the Russian. "I was afraid a big airship
couldn't land anywhere, in France without it becoming known. Word must
have been sent to Paris in the night, and this spy came out directly."

"But what will happen now?"

"Didn't you see where he headed for? The village. He has gone to send
word that his trick failed. There will be more spies soon, and we may
be detained or thrown into jail on some pretext or other. They may
claim that we have no license, or some such flimsy thing as that.
Anything to detain us. They are after me, of course, and I'm sorry that
I made you run such danger. Perhaps I'd better leave you, and--"

"No, you don't!" cried Tom heartily. "We'll all hang together or we'll
hang separately', as Benjamin Franklin or some of those old chaps once
remarked. I'm not the kind to desert a friend in the face of danger."

"Bless my revolver! I should say not!" cried Mr. Damon. "What's it all
about? Where's the danger?"

They told him as briefly as possible, and Ned, who had been working in
the motor room, was also informed.

"Well, what's to be done?" asked Tom. "Had we better get out our
ammunition, or shall I take out a French license."

"Neither would do any good," answered the Russian. "I appreciate your
sticking by me, and if you are resolved on that the only thing to do is
to complete the repairs as soon as possible and get away from here."

"That's it!" cried Ned. "A quick flight. We can get more gasolene here,
for lots of autos pass along the road through the village. I found that
out. Then we needn't stop until we hit the trail for the mine in
Siberia!"

"Hush!" cautioned the Russian. "You can't tell who may be sneaking
around to listen. But we ought to leave as soon as we can."

"And we will," said Tom. "I've got the magneto almost fixed!"

"Let's get a hustle on then!" urged Ned. "That fellow meant business
from his looks. The nerve of him to try to pick a quarrel that way."

"I might have told by his manner that something was wrong," commented
Tom, "but I thought he was a fresh tramp and I didn't take any pains in
answering him. But come on, Ned, get busy."

They did, with such good effect that by noon the machinery was in
running shape again, and so far there had been no evidence of the
return of the spy. Doubtless he was waiting for instructions, and
something might happen any minute.

"Now, Ned, if you'll see to having some gasolene brought out here, and
the tanks filled, I'll tinker with the dynamo and get that in running
shape," said Tom. "It only needs a little adjustment of the brushes.
Then we'll be off."

Ned started for the village where there was a gasolene depot. He fancied
the villagers regarded him rather curiously, but he did not stop to ask
what it meant. Another odd fact was that the usual crowd of curious
rustics about the airship was missing. It was as though they suspected
trouble might come, and they did not want to be mixed up in it.

Never, Ned thought, had he seen a man so slow at getting ready the
supply of gasolene. He was to take it out in a wagon, but first he
mislaid the funnel, then the straining cloth, and finally he discovered
a break in the harness that needed mending.

"I believe he's doing it on purpose to delay us," thought the youth,
"but it won't do to say anything. Something is in the wind." He helped
the man all he could, and urged him in every way he knew, but the
fellow seemed to have grown suddenly stupid, and answered only in
French, though previously he had spoken some English.

But at last Ned, by dint of hard work, got him started, and rode on the
gasolene wagon with him. Once at the anchored airship, Tom and the
others filled the reserve tanks themselves, though the man tried to
help. However he did more harm than good, spilling several gallons of
the fluid.

"Oh, get away, and let us do it!" cried Tom at last. "I know what you--"

"Easy!" cautioned Mr. Petrofsky, with a warning look, and Tom subsided.

Finally the tanks were full, the man was paid, and he started to drive
away.

"Now to make a quick flight!" cried Tom, as he took his place in the
pilot house, while Ned went to the engine room. "Full speed, Ned!"

"Yes, and we'll need it, too," said the Russian.

"Why?" asked Tom.

"Look!" was the answer, and Ivan Petrofsky pointed across the field
over which, headed toward the airship, came the man who had sought a
quarrel with Tom. And with the spy were several policemen in uniform,
their short swords dangling at their sides.

"They're after us!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my chronometer they're
after us!"

"Start the motor, Ned! Start the motor!" cried Tom, and a moment later
the hum of machinery was heard, while the police and the spy broke into
a run, shouting and waving their hands.




CHAPTER XV

PURSUED


Slowly the airship arose, almost too slowly to suit those on board who
anxiously watched the oncoming officers. The latter had drawn their
short swords, and at the sight of them Mr. Damon cried out:

"Bless my football! If they jab them into the gas bag, Tom, we're done
for!"

"They won't get the chance," answered the young inventor, and he spoke
truly, for a moment later, as the big propellers took hold of the air,
the Falcon went up with a rush, and was far beyond the reach of the
men.  In a rage the spy shook his fist at the fast receding craft, and
one of the policemen drew his revolver.

"They're going to fire!" cried Ned.

"They can't do much damage," answered Tom coolly. "A bullet hole in the
bag is easily repaired, and anywhere else it won't amount to anything."

The officer was aiming his revolver at the airship, now high above his
head, but with a quick motion the spy pulled down his companion's arm,
and they seemed to be disputing among themselves.

"I wonder what that means?" mused Mr. Damon.

"Probably they didn't want to risk getting into trouble," replied the
Russian. "There are strict laws in France about using firearms, and as
yet we are accused of no crime. We are only suspected, and I suppose
the spy didn't want to get into trouble. He is on foreign ground, and
there might be international complications."

"Then you really think he was a spy?" asked Tom.

"No doubt of it, and I'm afraid this is only the beginning of our
trouble."

"In what way?"

"Well, of course word will be sent on ahead about us, and every where
we go they'll be on the watch for us. They have our movements pretty
well covered."

"We won't make a descent until we get to Siberia," said Tom, "and I
guess there it will be so lonesome that we won't be troubled much."

"Perhaps," admitted the Russian, "but we will have to be on our guard.
Of course keeping up in the air will be an advantage but they may--"

He stopped suddenly and shrugged his shoulders.

"What were you going to say?" inquired Ned.

"Oh, it's just something that might happen, but it's too remote a
possibility to work about. We're leaving those fellows nicely behind,"
he added quickly, as though anxious to change the subject.

"Yes, at this rate we'll soon be out of France," observed Tom, as he
speeded the ship along still more. The young inventor wondered what Mr.
Petrofsky had been going to say, but soon after this, some of the
repaired machinery in the motor room needed adjusting, and the young
inventor was kept so busy that the matter passed from his mind.

The dynamo and magneto were doing much more efficient work since Tom
had put the new platinum in, and the Falcon was making better time than
ever before. They were flying at a moderate height, and could see
wondering men, women and children rush out from their houses, to gaze
aloft at the strange sight. Paris was now far behind, and that night
they were approaching the borders of Prussia, as Mr. Petrofsky informed
them, for he knew every part of Europe.

The route, as laid down by Tom and the Russian, would send the airship
skirting the southern coast of the Baltic sea, then north-west, to pass
to one side of St. Petersburg, and then, after getting far enough to
the north, so as to avoid the big cities, they would head due east for
Siberia.

"In that way I think we'll avoid any danger from the Russian police,"
remarked the exile.

For the next few days they flew steadily on at no remarkable speed, as
the extra effort used more gasolene than Tom cared to expend in the
motor. He realized that he would need all he had, and he did not want
to have to buy any more until he was homeward bound, for the purchase
of it would lead to questions, and might cause their detention.

Mr. Damon gave his friends good meals and they enjoyed their trip very
much, though naturally there was some anxiety about whether it would
have a successful conclusion.

"Well, if we don't find the platinum mine we'll rescue your brother, if
there's a possible chance!" exclaimed Tom one day, as he sat in the
pilot house with the exile. "Jove! it will be great to drop down, pick
him up, and fly away with him before those Cossacks, or whoever has
him, know what's up."

"I'm afraid we can't make such a sensational rescue as that," replied
Mr. Petrofsky. "We'll have to go at it diplomatically. That's the only
way to get an exile out of Siberia. We must get word to him somehow,
after we locate him, that we are waiting to help him, and then we can
plan for his escape. Poor Peter! I do hope we can find him, for if he
is in the salt or sulphur mines it is a living death!" and he shuddered
at the memory of his own exile.

"How do you expect to get definite information as to where he might
be?" asked Tom.

"I think the only thing to do is to get in touch with some of the
revolutionists," answered the Russian. "They have ways and means of
finding out even state secrets. I think our best plan will be to land
near some small town, when we get to the edge of Siberia. If we can
conceal the airship, so much the better. Then I can disguise myself and
go to the village."

"Will it be safe?" inquired the young inventor.

"I'll have to take that chance. It's the only way, as I am the only one
in our party who can speak Russian."

"That's right," admitted Tom with a laugh. "I'm afraid I could never
master that tongue. It's as hard as Chinese."

"Not quite," replied his friend, "but it is not an easy language for an
American."

They talked at some length, and then Tom noticing, by one of the
automatic gages on the wall of the pilot house, that some of the
machinery needed attention, went to attend to it.

He was rather surprised, on emerging from the motor compartment, to see
Mr. Damon standing on the open after deck of the Falcon gazing
earnestly toward the rear.

"Star-gazing in the day time?" asked Tom with a laugh.

"Bless my individuality!" exclaimed the odd man. "How you startled me,
Tom! No, I'm not looking at stars, but I've been noticing a black speck
in the sky for some time, and I was wondering whether it was my
eyesight, or whether it really is something."

"Where is it?"

"Straight to the rear," answered Mr. Damon, "and it seems to be about a
mile up. It's been hanging in the same place this ten minutes."

"Oh, I see," spoke Tom, when the speck had been pointed out to him.
"It's there all right, but I guess it's a bird, an eagle perhaps. Wait,
I'll get a glass and we'll take a look."

As he was taking the telescope down from its rack in the pilot house,
Mr. Petrofsky saw him.

"What's up?" asked the Russian, and the youth told him.

"Must be a pretty big bird to be seen at such a distance as it is,"
remarked Tom.

"Maybe it isn't a bird," suggested Ivan Petrofsky. "I'll take a look
myself," and, showing something of alarm in his manner, he followed Tom
to where Mr. Damon awaited them. Ned also came out on deck.

Quickly adjusting the glass, Tom focused it on the black speck. It
seemed to have grown larger. He peered at it steadily for several
seconds.

"Is it a bird?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Jove! It's another airship--a big biplane!" cried Tom, "and there
seems to be three men in her."

"An aeroplane!" gasped Ned.

"Bless my deflecting rudder!" cried Mr. Damon. "An airship in this
out-of-the-way place?" for they were flying over a desolate country.

"And they're coming right after us," added Tom, as he continued to gaze.

"I thought so," was the quiet comment of Mr. Petrofsky. "That is what I
started to say a few days ago," he went on, "when I stopped, as I
hardly believed it possible. I thought they might possibly send an
aeroplane after us, as both the French and Russian armies have a number
of fast ones. So they are pursuing us. I'm afraid my presence will
bring you no end of trouble."

"Let it come!" cried Tom. "If they can catch up to us they've got a
good machine. Come on, Ned, let's speed her up, and make them take more
of our star dust."

"Wait a minute," advised the Russian, as he took the telescope from
Tom, and viewed the ever-increasing speck behind them. "Are you sure of
the speed of this craft?" he asked a moment later.

"I never saw the one yet I couldn't pull away from, even after giving
them a start," answered the young inventor proudly. "That is all but my
little sky racer. I could let them get within speaking distance, and
then pull out like the Congressional Limited passing a slow freight."

"Then wait a few minutes," suggested Mr. Petrofsky. "That is an
aeroplane all right, but I can't make out from what country. I'd like a
better view, and if it's safe we can come closer."

"Oh, it's safe enough," declared Tom. "I'll get things in shape for a
quick move," and he hurried back to the machine room, while the others
took turns looking at the oncoming aeroplane. And it was coming on
rapidly, showing that it had tremendous power, for it was a very large
one, carrying three men.

"How do you suppose they got on our track?" asked Ned.

"Oh, we must have been reported from time to time, as we flew over
cities or towns," replied Mr. Petrofsky. "You know we're rather large,
and can be seen from a good distance. Then too, the whole Russian
secret police force is at the service of our enemies."

"But we're not over Russia yet," said Mr. Damon.

Ivan Petrofsky took the telescope and peered down toward the earth.
They were not a great way above it, and at that moment they were
passing a small village.

"Can you tell where we are?" asked the odd man.

"We are just over the border of the land of the Czar," was the quiet
answer. "The imperial flag is flying from a staff in front of one of
the buildings down there. We are over Russia."

"And here comes that airship," called Ned suddenly.

They gazed back with alarm, and saw that it was indeed so. The big
aeroplane had come on wonderfully fast in the last few minutes.

"Tom! Tom!" cried his chum. "Better get ready to make a sprint."

"I'm all ready," calmly answered our hero. "Shall I go now?"

"If you can give us a few seconds longer I may be able to tell who is
after us," remarked Mr. Petrofsky, turning his telescope on the craft
behind them.

"I can let them get almost up to us, and get away," replied Tom.

The Russian did not answer. He was gazing earnestly at the approaching
aeroplane. A moment later he took the glass down from his eye.

"It's our spy again," he said. "There are two others with him. That is
one of the aeroplanes owned by the secret police. They are stationed
all over Europe, ready for instant service, and they're on our trail."

The pursuing craft was so near that the occupants could easily be made
out with the naked eye, but it needed the glass to distinguish their
features, and Mr. Petrofsky had done this.

"Shall I speed up?" cried Tom.

"Yes, get away as fast as you can!" shouted the Russian. "No telling
what they may do," and then, with a hum and a roar the motor of the
Falcon increased its speed, and the big airship shot ahead.




CHAPTER XVI

THE NIHILISTS


From the pursuing aircraft came a series of sharp explosions that
fairly rattled through the clear air.

"Look out for bombs!" yelled Ned.

"Bless my safety match!" cried Mr. Damon. "Are they anarchists?"

"It's only their motor back-firing," cried Tom. "It's all right,
They're done for now, we'll leave them behind."

He was a true prophet, for with a continued rush and a roar the airship
of our friends opened up a big gap between her rear rudders and the
forward planes of the craft that was chasing her. The three men were
working frantically to get their motor in shape, but it was a useless
task.

A little later, finding that they were losing speed, the three police
agents, or spies, whatever they might be, had to volplane to earth and
there was no need for the Falcon to maintain the terrific pace, to
which Tom had pushed her. The pursuit was over.

"Well, we got out of that luckily," remarked Ned, as he looked down to
where the spies were making a landing. "I guess they won't try that
trick again."

"I'm afraid they will," predicted Mr. Petrofsky. "You don't know these
government agents as I do. They never give up. They'll fix their
engine, and get on our trail again."

"Then we'll make them work for what they get," put in Tom, who, having
set the automatic speed accelerator, had rejoined his companions.
"We'll try a high flight and if they can pick up a trail in the air,
and come up to us, they're good ones!"

He ran to the pilot house, and set the elevation rudder at its limit.
Meanwhile the spies were working frantically over their motor, trying
to get it in shape for the pursuit. But soon they realized that this
was out of the question, for the Falcon was far away, every moment
going higher and higher, until she was lost to sight beyond the clouds.

"I guess they'll have their own troubles now," remarked Ned. "We've
seen the last of them."

"Don't be too sure," spoke the Russian. "We may have them after us
again.  We're over the land of the Czar now, and they'll have
everything their own way. They'll want to stop me at any cost."

"Do you think they suspect that we're after the platinum?" asked Tom.

"They may, for they know my brother and I were the only ones who ever
located it, though unless I get in the exact neighborhood I'd have
trouble myself picking it out. I remember some of the landmarks, but my
brother is better at that sort of work than I am. But I think what they
are mostly afraid of is that I have some designs on the life of, say
one of the Grand Dukes, or some high official. But I am totally opposed
to violent measures," went on Mr. Petrofsky. "I believe in a campaign
of education, to gain for the down-trodden people what are their
rights."

"Do you think they know you are coming to rescue your brother?" asked
Tom.

"I don't believe so. And I hope not, for once they suspected that, they
would remove him to some place where I never could locate him."

Calmer feelings succeeded the excitement caused by the pursuit, and our
friends, speculating on the matter, came to the conclusion that the
aeroplane must have started from some Prussian town, as Mr. Petrofsky
said there were a number of Russian secret police in that country. The
Falcon was now speeding along at a considerable height, and after
running for a number of miles, sufficient to preclude the possibility
that they could be picked up by the pursuing aeroplane, Tom sent his
craft down, as the rarefied atmosphere made breathing difficult.

It was about three days after the chase when, having carefully studied
the map and made several observations through the telescope of the
Country over which they were traveling, that Ivan Petrofsky said:

"If it can be managed, Tom, I think we ought to go down about here.
There is a Russian town not far away, and I know a few friends there,
There is a large stretch of woodland, and the airship can be easily
concealed there.

"All right," agreed the young inventor, "down we go, and I hope you get
the information you want."

Flying high so as to keep out of the observation of the inhabitants of
the Russian town, the young inventor sent his craft in a circle about
it, and, having seen a clearing in the forest, he made a landing there,
the Falcon having come to rest a second time since leaving Shopton, now
several thousand miles away.

"We'll hide here for a few days," observed Tom, "and you can spend as
much time in town as you like, Mr. Petrofsky."

The Russian, disguising himself by trimming his beard, and putting on a
pair of dark spectacles, went to the village that afternoon.

While he was gone Tom, Ned and Mr. Damon busied themselves about the
airship, making a few repairs that could not very well be done while it
was in motion. As night came on, and the exile did not return, Tom
began to get a little worried, and he had some notion of going to seek
him, but he knew it would not be safe.

"He'll come all right," declared Ned, as they sat down to supper. All
about them was an almost impenetrable forest, cut here and there by
paths along which, as Mr. Petrofsky had told them, the wood cutters
drove their wagons.

It was quite a surprise therefor, when, as they were leaving the table,
a knock was heard on the cabin door.

"Bless my electric bell!" cried Mr. Damon. "Who can that be?"

"Mr. Petrofsky of course," answered Ned.

"He wouldn't knock--he'd walk right in," spoke Tom, as he went to the
door. As he opened it he saw several dark-bearded men standing there,
and in their midst Mr. Petrofsky.

For one moment our hero feared that his friend had been arrested and
that the police had come to take the rest of them into custody. But a
word from the exile reassured him.

"These are some of my friends," said Mr. Petrofsky simply. "They are
Nihilists which I am not, but--"

"Nihilists yes! Always!" exclaimed one who spoke English. "Death to the
Czar and the Grand Dukes! Annihilation to the government!"

"Gently my friend, gently," spoke Mr. Petrofsky. "I am opposed to
violence you know." And then, while his new friends gazed wonderingly
at the strange craft, he led them inside. Tom and the others were
hardly able to comprehend what was about to take place.




CHAPTER XVII

ON TO SIBERIA


"Has anything happened?" asked Tom. "Are we suspected? Have they come
to warn us?"

"No, everything is all right, so far," answered Ivan Petrofsky. "I
didn't have the success I hoped for, and we may have to wait here for a
few days to get news of my brother. But these men have been very kind
to me," he went on, "and they have ways of getting information that I
have not. So they are going to aid me."

"That's right!" exclaimed the one who had first spoken. "We will yet
win you to our cause, Brother Petrofsky. Death to the Czar and the
Grand Dukes!"

"Never!" exclaimed the exile firmly. "Peaceful measures will succeed.
But I am grateful for what you can do for me. They heard me describe
your wonderful airship," he explained to Tom, "and wanted to see for
themselves."

The Nihilists were made welcome after Mr. Petrofsky had introduced
them.  They had strange and almost unpronounceable names for the ears
of our friends, and I will not trouble you with them, save to say that
the one who spoke English fairly well, and who was the leader, was
called Nicolas Androwsky. There was much jabbering in the Russian
tongue, when Mr. Petrofsky and Mr. Androwsky took the others about the
craft, explaining how it worked.

"I can't show you the air glider," said Tom, who naturally acted as
guide, "as it would take too long to put together, and besides there is
not enough wind here to make it operate."

"Then you need much wind?" asked Nicolas Androwsky.

"The harder the gale the better she flies," answered Tom proudly.

"Bless my sand bag, but that's right!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, who, up to
now had not taken much part in the conversation. He followed the party
about the airship, keeping in the rear, and he eyed the Nihilists as if
he thought that each one had one or more dynamite bombs concealed on
his person.

"Ha!" exclaimed Mr. Androwsky, turning suddenly to the odd man. "Are
you not one of us? Do you not believe that this terrible kingdom should
be destroyed--made as nothing, and a new one built from its ashes? Are
you not one of us?" and with a quick gesture he reached into his pocket.

"No! No!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, starting back. "Bless my election
ticket!  No! Never could I throw a bomb. Please don't give me one." Mr.
Damon started to run away.

"A bomb!" exclaimed the Nihilist, and then he drew from his pocket some
pamphlets printed in Russian. "I have no bombs. Here are some of the
tracts we distribute to convert unbelievers to our cause," he went on.
"Read them and you will understand what we are striving for. They will
convert you, I am sure."

He went on, following the rest of the party, while Mr. Damon dropped
back with Ned.

"Bless my gas meter!" gasped the odd man, as he stared at the
queerly-printed documents in his hand. "I thought he was going to give
me a bomb to throw!"

"I don't blame you," said Ned in a low voice. "They look like desperate
men, but probably they have suffered many hardships, and they think
their way of righting a wrong is the only way. I suppose you'll read
those tracts," he added with a smile.

"Hum! I'm afraid not," answered Mr. Damon. "I might just as well try to
translate a Chinese laundry check. But I'll save 'em for souvenirs,"
and he carefully put them in his pocket, as if he feared they might
unexpectedly turn into a bomb and blow up the airship.

The tour of the craft was completed and the Nihilists returned to the
comfortable cabin where, much to their surprise, they were served with
a little lunch, Mr. Damon bustling proudly about from the table to the
galley, and serving tea as nearly like the Russians drink it as
possible.

"Well, you certainly have a wonderful craft here--wonderful," spoke Mr.
Androwsky. "If we had some of these in our group now, we could start
from here, hover over the palace of the Czar, or one of the Grand
Dukes, drop a bomb, utterly destroy it, and come back before any of the
hated police would be any the wiser."

"I'm afraid I can't lend it to you," said Tom, and he could scarcely
repress a shudder at the terrible ideas of the Nihilists.

"It would never do," agreed Ivan Petrofsky. "The campaign of education
is the only way."

There were gutteral objections on the part of the other Russians, and
they turned to more cheerful subjects of talk.

"What are your plans?" asked Tom of the exile. "You say you can get no
trace here of your brother?"

"No, he seems to have totally disappeared from sight. Usually we
enemies of the government can get some news of a prisoner, but poor
Peter is either dead, or in some obscure mine, which is hidden away in
the forests or mountains."

"Maybe he is in the lost platinum mine," suggested Ned.

"No, that has not been discovered," declared the exile, "or my friends
here would have heard of it. That is still to be found."

"And we'll do it, in the air glider," declared Tom. "By the way, Mr.
Petrofsky, would it not be a good plan to ask your friends the location
of the place where the winds constantly blow with such force. It occurs
to me that in some such way we might locate the mine."

"It would be of use if there was only one place of the gales," replied
the exile. "But Siberia has many such spots in the mountain
fastnesses--places which, by the peculiar formation of the land, have
constant eddys of air over them. No, the only way is for us to go as
nearly as possible to the place where my brother and I were imprisoned,
and search there."

"But what is that you said about us having to stay here, to get some
news of your brother?" asked Tom.

"I had hoped to get some information here," resumed Mr. Petrofsky, "but
my friends here are without news. However, they are going to make
inquiries, and we will have to stay here until they have an answer. It
will be safe, they think, as there are not many police in town, and the
local authorities are not very efficient. So the airship will remain
here, and, from time to time I will go to the village, disguised, and
see if any word has come."

"And we will bring you news as soon as we get it," promised Mr.
Androwsky. "You are not exactly one of us, but you are against the
government, and, therefor, a brother. But you will be one of us in
time."

"Never," replied the exile with a smile. "My only hope now is to get my
brother safely away, and then we will go and live in free America. But,
Tom, I hope I won't put you out by delaying here."

"Not a bit of it. More than half the object of our trip is to rescue
your brother. We must do that first. Now as to details," and they fell
to discussing plans. It was late that night when the Nihilists left the
airship, first having made a careful inspection to see that they were
not spied upon. They promised at once to set to work their secret
methods of getting information.

For several days the airship remained in the vicinity of the Russian
town. Our friends were undisturbed by visitors, as they were in a
forest where the villagers seldom came and the nearest wood-road was
nearly half a mile off.

Every day either Mr. Petrofsky went in to town to see the Nihilists or
some of them came out to the Falcon, usually at night.

"Well, have you any word yet?" asked Tom, after about a week had passed.

"Nothing yet," answered the exile, and his tone was a bit hopeless.
"But we have not given up. All the most likely places have been tried,
but he is not there. We have had traces of him, but they are not fresh
ones. He seems to have been moved from one mine to another. Probably
they feared I would make an attempt to rescue him. But I have not given
up. He is somewhere in Siberia."

"And we'll find him!" cried Tom with enthusiasm.

For three days more they lingered, and then, one night, when they were
just getting ready to retire, there was a knock on the cabin door. Mr.
Petrofsky had been to the village that day, and had received no news.
He had only returned about an hour before.

"Some one's knocking," announced Ned, as if there could be any doubt of
it.

"Bless my burglar alarm!" gasped Mr. Damon.

"I'll see who it is," volunteered Mr. Petrofsky, and Tom looked toward
the rack of loaded rifles, for that day a man, seemingly a wood cutter
had passed close to the airship, and had hurried off as if he had seen
a ghost.

The knock was repeated. It might be their friends, and it might be--

But Mr. Petrofsky solved the riddle by throwing back the portal, and
there stood the Nihilist, Nicolas Androwsky.

"Is there anything the matter?" asked the exile quickly.

"We have news," was the cautious answer, as the Nihilist slipped in,
and closed the door behind him.

"News of my brother?"

"Of your brother! He is in a sulphur mine in the Altai Mountains, near
the city of Abakansk."

"Where's that?" asked Tom for he had forgotten most of his Russian
geography.

"The Altai Mountains are a range about the middle of Siberia,"
explained Mr. Petrofsky. "They begin at the Kirghiz Steppes, and run
west. It is a wild and desolate place. I hope we can find poor Peter
alive."

"And this city of Abakansk?" went on the young inventor.

"It is many miles from here, but I can give you a good map," said the
Nihilist. "Some of our friends are there," he added with a half-growl.
"I wish we could rescue all of them."

"We'd like to," spoke Tom. "But I fear it is impossible. But now that
we have a clew, come on! Let's start at once! It may be dangerous to
stay here. On to Siberia!"




CHAPTER XVIII

IN A RUSSIAN PRISON


The news they had waited for had come at last. It might be a false
clew, but it was something to work on, and Tom was tired of inaction.
Then, too, even after they had started, the prisoner might be moved and
they would have to trace him again.

"But that is the latest information we could get," said Mr. Androwsky.
"It came through some of our Anarchist friends, and I believe is
reliable. Can you soon make a thousand miles in your airship?"

"Yes," answered Tom, "if I push her to the limit."

"Then do so," advised the Nihilist, "for there is need of haste. In
making inquiries our friends might incur suspicions and Peter Petrofsky
may be exiled to some other place."

"Oh, we'll get there," cried Tom. "Ned, see to the gas machine. Mr.
Damon, you can help me in the pilot house."

"Here is a map of the best route," said the Nihilist, as he handed one
to Mr. Petrofsky. "It will take you there the shortest way. But how can
you steer when high in the air?"

"By compass," explained Tom. "We'll get there, never fear, and we're
grateful for your clew."

"I never can thank you enough!" exclaimed the exile, as he shook hands
with Mr. Androwsky.

The Nihilist left, after announcing that, in the event of the success
of Tom and his friends, and the rescue of the exile from the sulphur
mine, it would probably become known to them, as such news came through
the Revolutionary channels, slowly but surely.

"Here we go!" cried the young inventor gaily, as he turned the starting
lever in the pilot house, and silently, in the darkness of the night,
the Falcon shot upward. There was not a light on board, for, though
small signal lamps had been kept burning when the craft was in the
forest, to guide the Nihilists to her, now that she was up in the air,
and in motion, it was feared that her presence would become known to
the authorities of the town, so even these had been extinguished.

"After we get well away we can turn on the electrics," remarked Tom,
"and if they see us at a distance they may take us for a meteor. But,
so close as this, they'd get wise in a minute."

Mr. Damon, who had done all that Tom needed in the starting of the
craft, went to the forward port rail, and idly looked down on the black
forest they were leaving. He could just make out the clearing where
they had rested for over a week, and he was startled to see lights
bobbing in it.

"I say, Mr. Petrofsky!" he called. "Did we leave any of our lanterns
behind us?"

"I don't believe so," answered the exile. "I'll ask Tom."

"Lanterns? No," answered the young inventor. "Before we started I took
down the only one we had out. I'll take a look."

Setting the automatic steering apparatus, he joined Mr. Damon and the
Russian. The lights were now dimly visible, moving about in the forest
clearing.

"It's just as if they were looking for something," said Tom. "Can it be
that any of your Nihilist friends, Mr. Petrofsky are--"

"Friends--no friends--enemies!" cried the Russian. "I understand now!
We got away just in time. Those are police agents who are looking for
us!  They must have received word about our being there. Androwsky and
the others never carry lights when they go about. They know the country
too well, and then, too, it leads to detection. No, those are police
spies.  A few minutes later, and we would have been discovered."

"As it is we're right over their heads, and they don't know it,"
chuckled Tom. The airship was moving silently along before a good
breeze, the propellers not having been started, and Tom let her drift
for several miles, as he did not want to give the police spies a clew
by the noise of the motor.

The twinkling lights in the forest clearing disappeared from sight, and
the seekers went on in the darkness.

"Well, we've got the hardest part of our work yet ahead of us,"
remarked Tom several hours later when, the lights having been set
aglow, they were gathered in the main cabin. There was no danger of
being seen now, for they were quite high.

"We've done pretty well, so far," commented Ned. "I think we will have
easier work rescuing Mr. Petrofsky's brother than in locating the mine.

"I don't know about that," answered the Russian. "It is almost
impossible to rescue a person from Siberia. Of course it is not going
to be easy to locate the lost mine, but as for that we can keep on
searching, that is if the air glider works, but there are so many
forces to fight against in rescuing a prisoner."

They had a long journey ahead of them, and not an easy route to follow,
but as the days passed, and they came nearer and nearer to their goal,
they became more and more eager.

They were passing over a desolate country, for they avoided the
vicinity of large towns and cities.

"I wonder when we'll strike Siberia?" mused Tom one afternoon, as they
sat on the outer deck, enjoying the air.

"At this rate of progress, very soon," answered the exile, after
glancing at the map. "We should be at the foot of the Ural mountains in
a few hours, and across them in the night. Then we will be in Siberia."

And he was right, for just as supper was being served, Ned, who had
been making observations with a telescope, exclaimed:

"These must be the Urals!"

Mr. Petrofsky seized the glass.

"They are," he announced. "We will cross between Orsk and Iroitsk. A
safe place. In the morning we will be in Siberia--the land of the
exiles."

And they were, morning seeing them flying over a most desolate stretch
of landscape. Onward they flew, covering verst after verst of
loneliness.

"I'm going to put on a little more speed," announced Tom, after a visit
to the storeroom, where were kept the reserve tanks of gasolene. "I've
got more fluid than I thought I had, and as we're on the ground now I
want to hurry things. I'm going to make better time," and he yanked
over the lever of the accelerator, sending the Falcon ahead at a rapid
rate.

All day this was kept up, and they were just making an observation to
determine their position, along toward supper time, when there came the
sound of another explosion from the motor room.

"Bless my safety valve!" cried Mr. Damon. "Something has gone wrong
again."

Tom ran to the motor, and, at the same time the Falcon which was being
used as an aeroplane and not as a dirigible, began to sink.

"We're going down!" cried Ned.

"Well, you know what to do!" shouted his chum. "The gas bag! Turn on
the generator!"

Ned ran to it, but, in spite of his quick action, the craft continued
to slide downward.

"She won't work!" he cried.

"Then the intake pipe must be stopped!" answered the young inventor.
"Never mind, I'll volplane to earth and we can make repairs. That
magneto has gone out of business again."

"Don't land here!" cried Ivan Petrofsky.

"Why not?"

"Because we are approaching a large town--Owbinsk I think it is--the
police there will be there to get us. Keep on to the forest again!"

"I can't!" cried Tom. "We've got to go down, police or no police."

Running to the pilot house, he guided the craft so that it would safely
volplane to earth. They could all see that now they were approaching a
fairly large town, and would probably land on its outskirts. Through
the glass Ned could make out people staring up at the strange sight.

"They'll be ready to receive us," he announced grimly.

"I hope they have no dynamite bombs for us," murmured Mr. Damon. "Bless
my watch chain! I must get rid of that Nihilist literature I have about
me, or they'll take me for one," and he tore up the tracts, and
scattered them in the air.

Meanwhile the Falcon continued to descend.

"Maybe I can make quick repairs, and get away before they realize who
we are," said Tom, as he got ready for the landing.

They came down in a big field, and, almost before the bicycle wheels
had ceased revolving, under the application of the brakes, several men
came running toward them.

"Here they come!" cried Mr. Damon.

"They are only farmers," said the exile. He had donned his dark glasses
again, and looked like anything but a Russian.

"Lively, Ned!" cried Tom. "Let's see if we can't make repairs and get
off again."

The two lads frantically began work, and they soon had the magneto in
running order. They could have gone up as an aeroplane, leaving the
repairs to the gas bag to be made later but, just as they were ready to
start, there came galloping out a troop of Cossack soldiers. Their
commander called something to them.

"What is he saying?" cried Tom to Mr. Petrofsky.

"He is telling them to surround us so that we can not get a running
start, such as we need to go up. Evidently he understands aeroplanes."

"Well, I'm going to have a try," declared the young inventor.

He jumped to the pilot house, yelling to Ned to start the motor, but it
was too late. They were hemmed in by a cordon of cavalry, and it would
have been madness to have rushed the Falcon into them, for she would
have been wrecked, even if Tom could have succeeded in sending her
through the lines.

"I guess it's all up with us," groaned Ned.

And it seemed to; for, a moment later, an officer and several aides
galloped forward, calling out something in Russian.

"What is it?" asked Tom.

"He says we are under arrest," translated the exile.

"What for?" demanded the young inventor.

Ivan Petrofsky shrugged his shoulders.

"It is of little use to ask--now," he answered. "It may be we have
violated some local law, and can pay a fine and go, or we may be taken
for just what we are, or foreign spies, which we are not. It is best to
keep quiet, and go with them."

"Go where?" cried Tom.

"To prison, I suppose," answered the exile. "Keep quiet, and leave it
to me. I will do all I can. I don't believe they will recognize me.

"Bless my search warrant!" cried Mr. Damon. "In a Russian prison! That
is terrible!"

A few minutes later, expostulations having been useless, our friends
were led away between guards who carried ugly looking rifles, and who
looked more ugly and menacing themselves. Then the doors of the Russian
prison of Owbinsk closed on Tom and his friends, while their airship
was left at the mercy of their enemies.




CHAPTER XIX

LOST IN A SALT MINE


The blow had descended so suddenly that it was paralyzing. Tom and his
friends did not know what to do, but they saw the wisdom of the course
of leaving everything to Ivan Petrofsky. He was a Russian, and he knew
the Russian police ways--to his sorrow.

"I'm not afraid," said Tom, when they had been locked in a large prison
room, evidently set apart for the use of political, rather than
criminal, offenders. "We're United States citizens, and once our
counsel hears of this--as he will--there'll be some merry doings in
Oskwaski, or whatever they call this place. But I am worried about what
they may do to the Falcon."

"Have no fears on that score," said the Russian exile. "They know the
value of a good airship, and they won't destroy her."

"What will they do then?" asked Tom.

"Keep her for their own use, perhaps."

"Never!" cried Tom. "I'll destroy her first!"

"If you get the chance!" interposed the exile.

"But we're American citizens!" cried Tom, "and--"

"You forget that I am not," interrupted Mr. Petrofsky. "I can't claim
the protection of your flag, and that is why I wish to remain unknown.
We must act quietly. The more trouble we make, the more important they
will know us to be. If we hope to accomplish anything we must act
cautiously."

"But my airship!" cried Tom.

"They won't do anything to that right away," declared the Russian in a
whisper for he knew sometimes the police listened to the talk of
prisoners. "I think, from what I overheard when they arrested us, that
we either trespassed on the grounds of some one in authority, who had
us taken in out of spite, or they fear we may be English or French
spies, seeking to find out Russian secrets."

They were served with food in their prison, but to all inquiries made
by Ivan Petrofsky, evasive answers were returned. He spoke in poor,
broken Russian, so that he would not be taken for a native of that
country. Had he been, he would have at once been in great danger of
being accused as an escaped exile.

Finally a man who, the exile whispered to his Companions, was the local
governor, came to their prison. He eagerly asked questions as to their
mission, and Mr. Petrofsky answered them diplomatically.

"I don't think he'll make much out of what I told him," said the exile
when the governor had gone. "I let him think we were scientists, or
pleasure seekers, airshipping for our amusement. He tried to tangle me
up politically, but I knew enough to keep out of such traps."

"What's going to become of us?" asked Ned.

"We will be detained a few days--until they find out more about us.
Their spies are busy, I have no doubt, and they are telegraphing all
over Europe about us."

"What about my airship?" asked Tom.

"I spoke of that," answered the exile. "I said you were a well-known
inventor of the United States, and that if any harm came to the craft
the Russian Government would not only be held responsible, but that the
governor himself would be liable, and I said that it cost much money.
That touched him, for, in spite of their power, these Russians are
miserably paid. He didn't want to have to make good, and if it
developed that he had made a mistake in arresting us, his superiors
would disclaim all responsibility, and let him shoulder the blame. Oh,
all is not lost yet, though I don't like the looks of things."

Indeed it began to seem rather black for our friends, for, that night
they were taken from the fairly comfortable, large, prison room, and
confined in small stone cells down in a basement. They were separated,
but as the cells adjoined on a corridor they could talk to each other.
With some coarse food, and a little water, Tom and his friends were
left alone.

"Say I don't like this!" cried our hero, after a pause.

"Me either," chimed in Ned.

"Bless my burglar alarm!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "It's an awful disgrace!
If my wife ever heard of me being in jail--"

"She may never hear of it!" interposed Tom.

"Bless my heart!" cried the odd man. "Don't say such things."

They discussed their plight at length, but nothing could be done, and
they settled themselves to uneasy slumber. For two days they were thus
imprisoned, and all of Mr. Petrofsky's demands that they be given a
fair trial, and allowed to know the nature of the charge against them,
went for naught. No one came to see them but a villainous looking
guard, who brought them their poor meals. The governor ignored them,
and Mr. Petrofsky did not know what to think.

"Well, I'm getting sick of this!" exclaimed Tom--"I wish I knew where
my airship was."

"I fancy it's in the same place," replied the exile. "From the way the
governor acted I think he'd be afraid to have it moved. It might be
damaged. If I could only get word to some of my Revolutionary friends
it might do some good, but I guess I can't. We'll just have to wait."

Another day passed, and nothing happened. But that night, when the
guard came to bring their suppers, something did occur.

"Hello! we've got a new one!" exclaimed Tom, as he noted the man. "Not
so bad looking, either."

The man peered into his cell, and said something in Russian.

"Nothing doing," remarked the young inventor with a short laugh. "Nixy
on that jabbering."

But, no sooner had the man's words penetrated to the cell of Ivan
Petrofsky, that the exile called out something. The guard started,
hastened to that cell door, and for a few seconds there was an excited
dialogue in Russian.

"Boys! Mr. Damon! We're saved!" suddenly cried out Mr. Petrofsky.

"Bless my door knob! You don't say so!" gasped the odd man. "How? Has
the Czar sent orders to release us."

"No, but somehow my Revolutionary friends have heard about my arrest,
and they have arranged for our release--secretly of course. This guard
is affiliated with the Nihilist group that got on the trail of my
brother. He bribed the other guard to let him take his place for
to-night, and now--"

"Yes! What is it?" cried Tom.

"He's going to open the cell doors and let us out!"

"But how can we get past the other guards, upstairs?" asked Ned.

"We're not going that way," explained Mr. Petrofsky. "There is a secret
exit from this corridor, through a tunnel that connects with a large
salt mine. Once we are in there we can make our way out. We'll soon be
free."

"Ask him if he's heard anything of my airship?" asked Tom. Mr.
Petrofsky put the question rapidly in Russian and then translated the
answer.

"It's in the same place."

"Hurray!" cried Tom.

Working rapidly, the Nihilist guard soon had the cell doors open, for
he had the keys, and our friends stepped out into the corridor.

"This way," called Ivan Petrofsky, as he followed their liberator, who
spoke in whispers. "He says he will lead us to the salt mine, tell us
how to get out and then he must make his own escape."

"Then he isn't coming with us?" asked Ned.

"No, it would not be safe. But he will tell us how to get out. It seems
that years ago some prisoners escaped this way, and the authorities
closed up the tunnel. But a cave-in of the salt mine opened a way into
it again."

They followed their queer guide, who led them down the corridor. He
paused at the end, and then, diving in behind a pile of rubbish, he
pulled away some boards. A black opening, barely large enough for a man
to walk in upright, was disclosed.

"In there?" cried Tom.

"In there," answered Mr. Petrofsky. He and the guard murmured their
good-byes, and then, with a lighted candle the faithful Nihilist had
provided, and with several others in reserve, our friends stepped into
the blackness. They could hear the board being pulled back into place
behind them.

"Forward!" cried the exile, and forward they went.

It was not a pleasant journey, being through an uneven tunnel in the
darkness. Half a mile later they emerged into a large salt mine, that
seemed to be directly beneath the town. Work in this part had been
abandoned long ago, all the salt there was left being in the shape of
large pillars, that supported the roof. It sparkled dully in the candle
light.

"Now let me see if I remember the turnings," murmured Mr. Petrofsky.
"He said to keep on for half an hour, and we would come out in a little
woods not far from where our airship was anchored."

Twisting and turning, here and there in the semi-darkness, stumbling,
and sometimes falling over the uneven floor, the little party went on.

"Did you say half an hour?" asked Tom, after a while.

"Yes," replied the Russian.

"We've been longer than that," announced the young inventor, after a
look at his watch. "It's over an hour."

"Bless my timetable!" cried Mr. Damon.

"Are you sure?" asked Mr. Petrofsky.

"Yes," answered Tom in a low voice.

The Russian looked about him, flashing the candle on several turnings
and tunnels. Suddenly Ned uttered a cry.

"Why, we passed this place a little while before!" he said. "I remember
this pillar that looks like two men wrestling!"

It was true. They all remembered it when they saw it again.

"Back in the same place!" mused the Russian. "Then we have doubled on
our tracks. I'm afraid we're lost!"

"Lost in a Russian salt mine!" gasped Tom, and his words sounded
ominous in that gloomy place.




CHAPTER XX

THE ESCAPE


For a space of several seconds no one moved or spoke. In the flickering
light of the candle they looked at one another, and then at the
fantastic pillars of salt all about them. Then Mr. Damon started
forward.

"Bless my trolley car!" he exclaimed. "It isn't possible! There must be
some mistake. If we'll keep on we'll come out all right. You know your
way about, don't you, Mr. Petrofsky?"

"I thought I did, from what the guard told us, but it seems I must have
taken a wrong turning."

"Then it's easily remedied," suggested Tom "All we'll have to do will
be to go to the place where we started, and begin over again."

"Of course," agreed Ned, and they all seemed more cheerful.

"And if we start out once more, and get lost again, then what?" asked
Mr. Damon.

"Well, if worst comes to worst, we can go, back in the tunnel, go to
our cells and ask the guard to come with us and show us the way went on
Tom.

"Never!" cried the exile. "It would be the most dangerous thing in the
world to go back to the prison. Our escape has probably been discovered
by this time, and to return would only be to put our heads in the
noose.  We must keep on at any cost!"

"But if we can't get out," suggested Tom, "and if we haven't anything
to eat or drink, we--"

He did not finish, but they all knew what he meant.

"Oh, we'll get out!" declared Ned, who was something of an optimist.
"You've been in salt mines before, haven't you, Mr. Petrofsky?"

"Yes, I was condemned to one once, but it was not in this part of the
country, and it was not an abandoned one. I imagine this was only an
isolated mine, and that there are no others near it, so when they
abandoned it, after all the salt was taken out, most people forgot
about it. I remember once a party of prisoners were lost in a large
salt mine, and were missed for several days."

"What happened to them?" asked Tom.

"I don't like to talk about it," replied the Russian with a shudder.

"Bless my soul! Was it as bad as that?" asked Mr. Damon.

"It was," replied the exile. "But now let's see if we can find our way
back, and start afresh. I'll be more careful next time, and watch the
turns more closely."

But he did not get the chance. They could not find the tunnel whence
they had started. Turn after turn they took, down passage after passage
sometimes in such small ones that they almost had to crawl.

But it was of no use. They could not find their way back to the
starting place, and they could not find the opening of the mine. They
had used two of the slow burning candles and they had only half a dozen
or so left. When these were gone--

But they did not like to think of that, and stumbled on and on. They
did not talk much, for they were too worried. Finally Ned gasped:

"I'd give a good deal for a drink of water."

"So would I," added his chum. "But what's the use of wishing? If there
was a spring down here it would be salt water. But I know what I would
do--if I could."

"What?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Go back to the prison. At least we wouldn't starve there, and we'd
have something to drink. If they kept us we know we could get
free--sometime."

"Perhaps never!" exclaimed Ivan Petrofsky. "It is better to keep on
here, and, as for me, I would rather die here than go back to a Russian
prison. We must--we shall get out!"

But it was idle talk. Gradually they lost track of time as they
staggered on, and they hardly knew whether a day had passed or whether
it was but a few hours since they had been lost.

Of their sufferings in that salt mine I shall not go into details.
There are enough unpleasant things in this world without telling about
that.  They must have wandered around for at least a day and a half,
and in all that while they had not a drop of water, and not a thing to
eat. Wait, though, at last in their desperation they did gnaw the
tallow candles, and that served to keep them alive, and, in a measure,
alleviate their awful sufferings from thirst.

Back and forth they wandered, up and down in the galleries of the old
salt mine. They were merely hoping against hope.

"It's worse than the underground city of gold," said Ned in hollow
tones, as he staggered on. "Worse--much worse." His head was feeling
light. No one answered him.

It was, as they learned later, just about two days after the time when
they entered the mine that they managed to get out. Forty-eight hours,
most of them of intense suffering. They were burning their last candle,
and when that was out they knew they would have the horrors of darkness
to fight against, as well as those of hunger and thirst.

But fate was kind to them. How they managed to hit on the right gallery
they did not know, but, as they made a turn around an immense pillar of
salt Tom, who was walking weakly in advance, suddenly stopped.

"Look! Look!" he whispered. "Another candle! Someone--someone is
searching for us! We are saved!"

"It may be the police!" said Ned.

"That is not a candle," spoke the Russian in hollow tones as he looked
to where Tom pointed, to a little glimmer of light. "It is a star.
Friends, we are saved, and by Providence! That is a star, shining
through the opening of the mine. We are saved!"

Eagerly they pressed forward, and they had not gone far before they
knew that the exile was right. They felt the cool night wind on their
hot cheeks.

"Thank heaven!" gasped Tom, as he pushed on.

A moment later, climbing over the rusted rails on which the mine cars
had run with their loads of salt, they staggered into the open. They
were free--under the silent stars!

"And now, if we can only find the airship," said Tom faintly, "we can--"

"Look there!" whispered Ned, pointing to a patch of deeper blackness
that the surrounding night. "What's that."

"The Falcon!" gasped Tom. He started toward her, for she was but a
short distance from a little clump of trees into which they had emerged
from the opening of the salt mine. There, on the same little plane
where they had landed in her was the airship. She had not been moved.

"Wait!" cautioned Ivan Petrofsky. "She may be guarded."

Hardly had he spoken than there walked into the faint starlight on the
side of the ship nearest them, a Cossack soldier with his rifle over
his shoulder.

"We can't get her!" gasped Ned.

"We've got to get her!" declared Tom. "We'll die if we don't!"

"But the guards! They'll arrest us!" said the exile.

An instant later a second soldier joined the first, and they could be
seen conversing. They then resumed their pacing around the anchored
craft. Evidently they were waiting for the escaped prisoners to come up
when they would give the alarm and apprehend them.

"What can we do?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I have a plan," said Tom weakly. "It's the only chance, for we're not
strong enough to tackle them. Every time they go around on the far side
of the airship we must creep forward. When they come on this side we'll
lie down. I doubt if they can see us. Once we are on hoard we can cut
the ropes, and start off. Everything is all ready for a start if they
haven't monkeyed with her, and I don't think they have. We've got room
enough to run along as an aeroplane and mount upward. It's our only
hope."

The others agreed, and they put the plan into operation. When the
Cossack guards were out of sight the escaped prisoners crawled forward,
and when the soldiers came into view our friends waited in silence.

It took several minutes of alternate creeping and waiting to do this,
but it was accomplished at last and unseen they managed to slip aboard.
Then it was the work of but a moment to cut the restraining ropes.

Silently Tom crept to the motor room. He had to work in absolute
darkness, for the gleam of a light would have drawn the fire of the
guards. But the youth knew every inch of his invention. The only
worriment was whether or not the motor would start up after the
breakdown, not having been run since it was so hastily repaired. Still
he could only try.

He looked out, and saw the guards pacing back and forth. They did not
know that the much-sought prisoners were within a few feet of them.

Ned was in the pilot house. He could see a clear field in front of him.

Suddenly Tom pulled the starting lever. There was a little clicking,
followed by silence. Was the motor going to revolve? It answered the
next moment with a whizz and a roar.

"Here we go!" cried the young inventor, as the big machine shot forward
on her flight. "Now let them stop us!"

Forward she went until Ned, knowing by the speed that she had momentum
enough, tilted the elevation rudder, and up she shot, while behind, on
the ground, wildly running to and fro, and firing their rifles, were
the two amazed guards.




CHAPTER XXI

THE RESCUE


"Have we--have we time to get a drink?" gasped Ned, when the aeroplane,
now on a level keel, had been shooting forward about three minutes.
Already it was beyond the reach of the rifles.

"Yes, but take only a little," cautioned Tom. "Oh! it doesn't seem
possible that we are free!"

He switched on a few interior lights, and by their glow the faint and
starving platinum-seekers found water and food. Their craft had,
apparently, not been touched in their absence, and the machinery ran
well.

Cautiously they ate and drank, feeling their strength come back to
them, and then they removed the traces of their terrible imprisonment,
and set about in ease and comfort, talking of what they had suffered.

Onward sped the aeroplane, onward through the night, and then Tom,
having set the automatic steering gear, all fell into heavy slumbers
that lasted until far into the next day.

When the young inventor awoke he looked below and could see
nothing--nothing but a sea of mist.

"What's this?" he cried. "Are we above the clouds, or in a fog over
some inland sea?"

He was quite worried, until Ivan Petrofsky informed him that they were
in the midst of a dense fog, which was common over that part of Siberia.

"But where are we?" asked Ned.

"About over the province of Irtutsk," was the answer. "We are heading
north," he went on, as he looked at the compass, "and I think about
right to land somewhere near where my brother is confined in the
sulphur mine."

"That's so; we've got to drop," said Tom. "I must get the gas pipe
repaired. I wish we could see over what soft of a place we were so as
to know whether it would be safe to land. I wish the mist would clear
away."

It did, about noon, and they noted that they were over a desolate
stretch of country, in which it would be safe to make a landing.

Bringing the aeroplane down on as smooth a spot as he could pick out,
Tom and Ned were soon at work clearing out the clogged pipe of the gas
generator. They had to take it out in the open air, as the fumes were
unpleasant, and it was while working over it that they saw a shadow
thrown on the ground in front of them. Startled they looked up, to see
a burly Russian staring at them.

The sudden appearance of a man in that lonely spot, his calm regard of
the lads, his stealthy approach, which had made it possible for him to
be almost upon them before they were aware of his presence, all this
made them suspicious of danger. Tom gave a quick glance about, however,
and saw no others--no Cossack soldiers, and as he looked a second time
at the man he noted that he was poorly dressed, that his shoes were
ragged, his whole appearance denoting that he had traveled far, and was
weary and ill.

"What do you make of this, Ned?" asked Tom, in a low voice.

"I don't know what to make of it. He can't be an officer, in that rig,
and he has no one with him. I guess we haven't anything to be afraid
of.  I'm going to ask him what he wants."

Which Tom did in his plainest English. At once the man broke into a
stream of confused Russian, and he kept it up until Tom held up his
hand for silence.

"I'm sorry, but I can't understand you," said the young inventor. "I'll
call some one who can, though," and, raising his voice, he summoned
Ivan Petrofsky who, with Mr. Damon, was inside the airship doing some
small repairs.

"There's a Russian out here, Mr. Petrofsky," said Tom, "and what he
wants I can't make out."

The exile was quickly on the scene and, after a first glance at the
man, hurried up to him, grasped him by the hand and at once the two
were talking such a torrent of hard-sounding words that Tom and Ned
looked at each other helplessly, while Mr. Damon, who had come out,
exclaimed:

"Bless my dictionary! they must know each other."

For several minutes the two Russians kept up their rapid-fire talk and
then Mr. Petrofsky, evidently realizing that his friends must wonder at
it, turned to them and said:

"This is a very strange thing. This man is an escaped convict, as I
once was. I recognized him by certain signs as soon as I saw him,
though I had never met him before. There are certain marks by which a
Siberian exile can never be forgotten," he added significantly. "He
made his escape from the mines some time ago, and has suffered great
hardships since. The revolutionists help him when they can, but he has
to keep in concealment and travels from town to town as best he may. He
has heard of our airship, I suppose from inquiries the revolutionists
have been making in our behalf, and when he unexpectedly came upon us
just now he was not frightened, as an ordinary peasant would have been.
But he did not know I was aboard."

"And does he know you?" asked Tom. "Does he know you are trying to
rescue your brother?"

"No, but I will tell him."

There was another exchange of the Russian language, and it seemed to
have a surprising result. For, no sooner had Ivan Petrofsky mentioned
his brother, than the other, whose name was Alexis Borious seemed
greatly excited. Mr. Petrofsky was equally so at the reply his new
acquaintance made, and fairly shouted to Tom, Ned and Mr. Damon.

"Friends, I have unexpected good news! It is well that we met this man
or we would have gone many miles out of our way. My brother has been
moved to another mine since the revolutionists located him for me. He
is in a lonely district many miles from here. This man was in the same
mine with him, until my brother was transferred, and then Mr. Borious
escaped. We will have to change our plans."

"And where are we to head for now?" asked Tom.

"Near to the town of Haskaski, where my poor brother is working in a
sulphur mine!"

"Then let's get a move on!" cried Tom with enthusiasm. "Do you think
this man will come with us, Mr. Petrofsky, to help in the rescue, and
show us the place?"

"He says he will," translated the exile, "though he is much afraid of
our strange craft. Still he knows that to trust himself to it is better
than being captured, and sent back to the mines to starve to death!"

"Good!" cried Tom. "And if he wants to, and all goes well, we'll take
him out of Russia with us. Now get busy, Ned, and we'll have this
machine in shape again soon."

While Ivan Petrofsky took his new friend inside, and explained to him
about the workings of the Falcon, Tom and Ned labored over the gas
machine with such good effect that by night it was capable of being
used. Then they went aloft, and making a change in their route, as
suggested by Mr. Borious, they headed for the desolate sulphur region.

For several days they sailed on, and gradually a plan of rescue was
worked out. According to the information of the newcomer, the best way
to save Mr. Petrofsky's brother was to make the attempt when the
prisoners were marched back from the mines to the barracks where they
were confined.

"It will be dark then," said Mr. Borious, "and if you can hover in your
airship near at hand, and if Mr. Petrofsky can call out to his brother
to run to him, we can take him up with us and get away before the
guards know what we are doing."

"But aren't the prisoners chained?" asked Tom.

"No, they depend on guards to prevent escapes."

"Then we'll try that way," decided the young inventor.

On and on they sailed, the Falcon working admirably. Verst after verst
was covered, and finally, one morning, Mr. Borious, who knew the
country well, from having once been a prisoner there, said:

"We are now near the place. If we go any closer we may be observed. We
had better remain hidden in some grove of trees so that at nightfall we
can go forth to the rescue."

"But how can we find it after dark?" asked Ned.

"You can easily tell by the lights in the barracks," was the answer. "I
can stand in the pilot house to direct you, for nearly all these exile
prisons are alike. The prisoners will march in a long line from the
mine. Then for the rescue."

It was tedious waiting that day, but it had to be done, and to Tom, who
was anxious to effect the rescue, and proceed to the place of the winds
to try his air glider, it seemed as if dusk would never come as they
remained in concealment.

But night finally approached and then the great airship went silently
aloft, ready to hover over the prison ground. Fortunately there was
little wind; and she could be used as a balloon, thus avoiding the
noise of the motor.

"The next thing I do, when I get home," remarked Tom, as they drifted
along. "Will be to make a silent airship. I think they would be very
useful."

With Mr. Borious in the pilot house, to point out the way, Tom steered
through the fast-gathering darkness. The Russian had soon become used
to the airship, and was not at all afraid.

"Can you go just where you want to, as a balloon?" asked the new guide.

"No, but almost," replied Tom. "At the last moment I've got to take a
chance and start the motor to send us just where we want to go. That's
why I think a silent airship would be a great thing. You could get up
on the enemy before he knew it."

"There are the prison barracks," said the guide a little later, his
talk being translated by Mr. Petrofsky. Below and a little ahead of
them could been seen a cluster of lights.

"Yes, that looks like a line of prisoners," remarked Ned, who was
peering through a pair of night glasses.

"Where?" asked Tom eagerly, and they were pointed out to him. He took
an observation, and exclaimed:

"There they are, sure enough. Now if your brother is only among them,
Mr. Petrofsky, we'll soon have him on board."

"Heaven grant that he may be there!" said the exile in a low voice.

A moment later, the Falcon, meanwhile having been allowed to drift as
close as possible to the dimly-seen line of prisoners, Tom set in
motion the great motor, the propeller blades heating the air fiercely.

At the sound there was a shout on the ground below, but before the
excitement had time to spread, or before any of the guards could form a
notion of what was about to take place, Tom had sent his craft to earth
on a sharp slant, closer to the line of prisoners than he had dared to
hope.

Mr. Petrofsky sprang out on deck, and in a loud voice called in Russian:

"Peter! Peter! If you are there, come here! Come quickly! It is I, your
brother Ivan who speaks. I have come to save you--save you in the
wonderful airship of Tom Swift! Come quickly and we will take you away!
Peter Petrofsky!"

For a moment there was silence, and then the sound of some one running
rapidly was borne to the ears of the waiting ones. It was followed, a
moment later, by angry shouts from the guards.

"Quick! Quick, Peter!" cried the brother, "over this way!"

For an instant only the exile showed a single electric flash light,
that his brother might see in which direction to run. The echo of the
approaching footsteps came nearer, the shouts of the guards redoubled,
and then came the sound of many men running in pursuit.

"Hurry, Peter, hurry!" cried Mr. Petrofsky, and, as he spoke in Russian
the guards, of course, understood.

Suddenly a rifle shot rang out, but the weapon seemed to have been
fired in the air. A moment later a dark figure clambered aboard the
airship.

"Peter, is it you?" cried Ivan Petrofsky, hoarsely.

"Yes, brother! But get away quickly or the whole guard will be swarming
about here!"

"Praise the dear Lord you are saved!"

"Is it all right?" cried Tom, who wanted to make sure they were saving
the right man.

"Yes! Yes, Tom! Go quickly!" called Ivan Petrofsky, as he folded his
brother in his arms. A moment later, with a roar, the Falcon shot away
from the earth, while below sounded angry cries, confused shouts and
many orders, for the guards and their officers had never known of such
a daring rescue as this.




CHAPTER XXII

IN THE HURRICANE


There was a volley of shots from the prison guards, and the flashes of
the rifles cut bright slivers of flame in the darkness, but, so rapidly
did the airship go up, veering off on a wide slant, under the skillful
guidance of Tom that the shots did no harm.

"Bless my bullet pouch!" cried Mr. Damon. "They must be quite excited."

"Shouldn't wonder," calmly observed Ned, as he went to help his chum in
managing the airship. "But it won't do them any good. We've got our
man."

"And right from under their noses, too," added Ivan Petrofsky
exultingly. "This rescue of an exile will go down in the history of
Russia."

The two exile brothers were gazing fondly at each other, for now that
the Falcon was so high, Tom ventured to turn on the lights.

A moment later the three Russians were excitedly conversing, while Tom
and Ned managed the craft, and Mr. Damon, after listening a moment to
the rapid flow of the strange language, which quite fascinated him,
hurried to the galley to prepare a meal for the rescued one, who had
been taken away before he had had a chance to get his supper.

His wonder at his startling and unexpected rescue may well be imagined,
but the joy at being reunited to his brother overshadowed everything
for the time being. But when he had a chance to look about, and see
what a strange craft he was in, his amazement knew no bounds, and he
was like a child. He asked countless questions, and Ivan Petrofsky and
Mr. Borious took turns in answering them. And from now on, I shall give
the conversation of the two new Russians just as if they spoke English,
though of course it had to be translated by Ivan Petrofsky, Peter's
brother.

If Peter was amazed at being rescued in an airship, his wonder grew
when he was served with a well-cooked meal, while high in the air, and
while flying along at the rate of fifty miles an hour. He could not
talk enough about it.

By degrees the story of how Tom and his friends had started for Russia
was told, and there was added the detail of how Mr. Borious came to be
picked up.

"But brother Ivan, you did not come all that distance to rescue me; did
you?" asked Peter.

"Yes, partly, and partly to find the platinum mine."

"What? The lost mine that you and I stumbled upon in that terrible
storm?"

"That is the one, Peter."

"Then, Tom Swift may as well return. I doubt if we can even locate the
district where it was, and if we did find it, the winds blow so that
even this magnificent ship could not weather the gales."

"I guess he doesn't understand about my air glider," said Tom with a
smile, when this was translated to him. "I wish I had a chance to put
it together, and show him how it works."

"Oh, it will work all right," replied Ned, who was very proud of his
friend's inventive ability.

"Now, what is the next thing to be done?" asked Tom, a little later
that evening, when, supper having been served, they were sitting in the
main cabin, talking over the events of the past few days. "I'd like to
get on the track of that platinum treasure."

"And we will do all in our power to aid you," said Ivan Petrofsky. "My
brother and I owe much to you--in fact Peter owes you his life; do you
not?" and he turned to him.

"I do," was the firm answer.

"Oh, nonsense!" exclaimed Tom, who did not like to be praised. "I
didn't do much."

"Much! You do not call taking me away from that place--that sulphur
mine--that horrible prison barrack with the cruel guards--you do not
call that much? My friend," spoke the Russian solemnly, "no one on
earth has done so much for me as you have, and if it is the power of
man to show you where that lost mine is, my brother and I will do so!"

"Agreed," spoke Ivan quietly.

"Then what plans shall we make?" asked Tom, after a little more talk.
"Are we to go about indiscriminately, or is there any possible way of
getting on the trail?"

"My brother and I will try and decide on a definite route," spoke Ivan
Petrofsky. "It is some time since I have seen him, and longer since we
accidently found the mine together, but we will consult each other,
and, if possible make some sort of a map."

This was done the next day, the present maps aboard the Falcon being
consulted, and the brothers comparing notes. They began to lay out a
stretch of country in which it was most likely the lost mine lay. It
took several days to do this, for sometimes one brother would forget
some point, and again the other would. But at last they agreed on
certain facts.

"This is the nearest we can come to it," said Ivan Petrofsky to Tom.
"The lost platinum mine lies somewhere between the city of Iakutsk and
the first range of the Iablonnoi mountains. Those are the northern and
southern boundaries. As for the western one, it is most likely the Lena
river, and the eastern one the Amaga river. So you see you have quite a
large stretch of country to search, Tom Swift."

"Yes, I should say I had," agreed the young inventor. "But I have had
harder tasks. Now that I know where to head for I'll get there as soon
as possible."

"And what will you do when you arrive?" asked Ned.

"Fly about in the Falcon, in ever-widening circles, starting as near
the centre of that area as possible," replied Tom. "And as soon as I
run into a steady hurricane I'll know that I'm at the place of the big
winds, and I'll get out my glider, for I'll be pretty sure to be near
the place."

"Bless my gas meter!" cried Mr. Damon. "That's the talk!"

Tom put his plan into operation at once, by heading the nose of his
craft for the desolate region mapped out by the Russian brothers.

The days that followed were filled with weary searching. It was like
the time when they had sought for the plain of the great ruined Temple
in Mexico, that they might locate the underground city of gold. Only in
this case they had no such landmark as a great Aztec ruin to guide them.

What they were seeking for was something unseen, but which could be
felt--a mysterious wind--a wind that might be encountered any time, and
which might send the Falcon to the earth a wreck.

The Russian brothers, staggering about in the storm, had seen the mine
under different conditions from what it would be viewed now. Then it
was winter in Siberia. Now it was summer, though it was not very warm.

On and on sailed the Falcon. The weather could not have been better,
but for once Tom wanted bad weather. He wanted a blow--the harder the
better--and all eyes anxiously watched the anemometer, or wind gage.
But ever it revolved lazily about in the gentle breeze.

"Oh, for a hurricane!" cried Tom.

He got his wish sooner than he anticipated. It was about two days after
this, when they were going about in a great circle, about two hundred
miles from the imaginary centre of the district in which the mine lay,
that, as Mr. Damon was getting dinner a dish he was carrying to the
table was suddenly whisked out of his hand.

"I say, what's the matter?" he cried. "Bless my--"

But he had no time to say more. The airship fairly stood on end, and
then, turning completely about, was rapidly driven in the opposite
direction, though her propellers were working rapidly.

"What's up?" yelled Ned.

"We are capsizing!" shouted Ivan Petrofsky, and indeed it seemed so,
for the airship was being forced over.

"I guess we've struck what we want!" cried Tom. "We're in a hurricane
all right! This is the place of the big wind! Now for my air glider, if
I can get the airship to earth without being wrecked! Ned, lend a hand!
We've got our work cut out for us now!"




CHAPTER XXIII

THE LOST MINE


For several moments it seemed as if disaster would overtake the little
band of platinum-hunters. In spite of all that Tom and Ned could do,
the Falcon was whipped about like a feather in the wind. Sometimes she
was pointing her nose to the clouds, and again earthward. Again she
would be whirling about in the grip of the hurricane, like some
fantastic dancer, and again she would roll dangerously. Had she turned
turtle it probably would have been the last of her and of all on board.

"Yank that deflecting lever as far down as it will go!" yelled Tom to
his chum.

"I am. She won't go any farther."

"All right, hold her so. Mr. Damon, let all the gas out of the bag. I
want to be as heavy as possible, and get to earth as soon as we can."

"Bless my comb and brush!" cried the odd man. "I don't know what's
going to become of us."

"You will know, pretty soon, if the gas isn't let out!" retorted Tom
grimly, and then Mr. Damon hastened to the generator compartment, and
opened the emergency outlet.

Finally, by crowding on all the possible power, so that the propellers
and deflecting rudders forced the craft down, Tom was able to get out
of the grip of the hurricane, and landed just beyond the zone of it on
the ground.

"Whew! That was a narrow squeak!" cried Ned, as he got out. "How'd you
do it, Tom?"

"I hardly know myself. But it's evident that we're on the right spot
now."

"But the wind has stopped blowing," said Mr. Damon. "It was only a
gust."

"It was the worst kind of a gust I ever want to see," declared the
young inventor. "My air glider ought to work to perfection in that. If
you think the wind has died out, Mr. Damon, just walk in that
direction," and Tom pointed off to the left.

"Bless my umbrella, I will," was the reply and the odd man started off.
He had not gone far, before he was seen to put his hand to his cap.
Still he kept on.

"He's getting into the blow-zone," said Tom in a low voice.

The next moment Mr. Damon was seen to stagger and fall, while his cap
was whisked from his head, and sent high into the air, almost instantly
disappearing from sight.

"Some wind that," murmured Ned, in rather awe-struck tones.

"That's so," agreed his chum. "But we'd better help Mr. Damon," for
that gentleman was slowly crawling back, not caring to trust himself on
his feet, for the wind had actually carried him down by its force.

"Bless my anemometer!" he gasped, when Tom and Ned had given him a hand
up. "What happened?"

"It was the great wind," explained Tom. "It blows only in a certain
zone, like a draft down a chimney. It is like a cyclone, only that goes
in a circle. This is a straight wind, but the path of it seems to be as
sharply marked as a trail through the forest. I guess we're here all
right. Does this location look familiar to you?" he asked of the
Russian brothers.

"I can't say that it does," answered Ivan. "But then it was winter when
we were here."

"And, another thing," put in Peter. "That wind zone is quite wide. The
mine may be in the middle, or near the other edge."

"That's so," agreed Tom. "We'll soon see what we can do. Come on, Ned,
let's get the air glider out and put her together. She'll have a test
as is a test, now."

I shall not describe the tedious work of re-assembling Tom Swift's
latest invention in the air craft line--his glider. Sufficient to say
that it was taken out from where it had been stored in separate pieces
on board the Falcon, and put together on the plain that marked the
beginning of the wind zone.

It was a curious fact that twenty feet away from the path of the wind
scarcely a breeze could be felt, while to advance a little way into it
meant that one would at once be almost carried off his feet.

Tom tested the speed of it one day with a special anemometer, and found
that only a few hundred feet inside the zone the wind blew nearly one
hundred miles an hour.

"What is it like inside, I wonder?" asked Ned.

"It must be terrific," was his chum's opinion.

"Dare you risk it, Tom?"

"Of course. The harder it blows the better the glider works. In fact I
can't make much speed in a hundred-mile wind for with us all on board
the craft will be heavy, and you must remember that I depend on the
wind alone to give me motion."

"What do you think causes the wind to blow so peculiarly here Tom?"
went on Ned.

"Oh, it must be caused by high mountain ranges on either side, or the
effects of heat and cold, the air being evaporated over a certain area
because of great heat, say a volcano, or something like that; though I
don't know that they have volcanoes here. That creates a vacuum, and
other air rushes in to fill the vacant space. That's all wind is,
anyhow, air rushing in to fill a vacuum, or low pressure zone, for you
remember that nature abhors a vacuum."

It took nearly a week to assemble the Vulture, as Tom had named his
latest craft, from the fact that it could hover in the air motionless,
like that great bird. At last it was completed and then, weights being
taken aboard to steady it, all was ready for the test. Tom would have
liked to have taken all his passengers in the glider, for it would work
better then, but the three Russians were timid, though they promised to
get aboard after the trial.

The test came off early one morning, Tom, Ned and Mr. Damon being the
only ones aboard. Bags of sand represented the others. The glider was
wheeled to the edge of the wind zone and they took their places in the
car. It was hard work for the gale, that had never ceased blowing for
an instant since they found its zone, was very strong. But the glider
remained motionless in it, for the wing planes, the rudders, and
equalizing weights had been adjusted to make the strain of the wind
neutral.

"All ready?" asked Tom, when his chum and his friend were in the
enclosed car of the glider.

"As ready as I ever shall be," answered Ned.

"Bless my suspenders! Let her go, Tom, and have it over with!" cried
the odd man.

The young inventor pulled a lever, and almost instantly the glider
darted forward. A moment later it soared aloft, and the three Russians
cheered. But their voices were lost in the roar of the hurricane, as
Tom sent his craft higher and higher.

It worked perfectly, and he could direct it almost anywhere. The wind
acted as the motive power, the bending and warping wings, and the
rudders and weights controlling its force.

"I'm going higher, and see if I can remain stationary!" yelled Tom in
Ned's ear. His chum only nodded. Mr. Damon was seated on a bench,
clinging to the sides of it as if he feared he would fall off.

Higher and higher went the Vulture, ever higher, until, all at once,
Tom pulled on another lever and she was still. There she hung in the
air, the wind rushing through her planes, but the glider herself as
still and quiet as though she rested on the ground in a calm. She
hardly moved a foot in either direction, and yet the wind, as evidenced
by the anemometer was howling along at a hundred and twenty miles an
hour!

"Success!" cried Tom. "Success! Now we can lie stationary in any spot,
and spy out the land through our telescope. Now we will find the lost
platinum mine!"

"Well, I'm not deaf," responded Ned with a smile, for Tom had fairly
yelled as he had at the start, and there was no need of this now, for
though the wind blew harder than ever it was not opposed to any of the
weights or planes, and there was only a gentle humming sound as it
rushed through the open spaces of the queer craft.

Tom gave his glider other and more severe tests, and she answered every
one. Then he came to earth.

"Now we'll begin the search," he said, and preparations were made to
that end. The Russians, now that they had seen how well the craft
worked, were not afraid to trust themselves in her.

As I have explained, there was an enclosed car, capable of holding six.
In this were stores, supplies and food sufficient for several days.
Tom's plan was to leave the airship anchored on the edge of the wind
zone, as a sort of base of supplies or headquarters. From there he
intended to go off from time to time in the wind-swept area to look for
the lost mine.

There were weary days that followed. Hour after hour was spent in the
air in the glider, the whole party being aboard. Observation after
observation was taken, sometimes a certain strata of wind enabling them
to get close enough to the earth to use their eyes, while again they
had to use the telescopes. They covered a wide section but as day after
day passed, and they were no nearer their goal, even Tom optimistic as
he usually was, began to have a tired and discouraged look.

"Don't you see anything like the place where you found the mine?" he
asked of the exile brothers.

They could only shake their heads. Indeed their task was not easy, for
to recognize the place again was difficult.

More than a week passed. They had been back and forth to their base of
supplies at the airship, often staying away over night, once remaining
aloft all through the dark hours in the glider, in a fierce gale which
prevented a landing. They ate and slept on board, and seldom descended
unless at or near the place where they had left the Falcon. Once they
completely crossed the zone of wind, and came to a calm place on the
other side. It was as wild and desolate as the other edge.

Nearly two weeks had passed, and Tom was almost ready to give up and go
back home. He had at least accomplished part of his desire, to rescue
the exile, and he had even done better than originally intended, for
there was Mr. Borious who had also been saved, and it was the intention
of the young inventor to take him to the United States.

"But the platinum treasure has me beat, I guess," said Tom grimly. "We
can't seem to get a trace of it."

Night was coming on, and he had half determined to head back for the
airship. Ivan Petrofsky was peering anxiously down at the desolate
land, over which they were gliding. He and his brother took turns at
this.

They were not far above the earth, but landmarks, such as had to be
depended on to locate the mine, could not readily be observed without
the glass. Mr. Damon, with a pair of ordinary field glasses, was doing
all he could to pick out likely spots, though it was doubtful if he
would know the place if he saw it.

However, as chance willed it, he was instrumental in bringing the quest
to a close, and most unexpectedly. Peter Petrofsky was relieving his
brother at the telescope, when the odd man, who had not taken his eyes
from the field glasses, suddenly uttered an exclamation.

"Bless my tooth-brush!" he cried. "That's a most desolate place down
there. A lot of trees blown down around a lake that looks as black as
ink."

"What's that!" cried Ivan Petrofsky. "A lake as black as ink? Where?"

"We just passed it!" replied Mr. Damon.

"Then put back there, as soon as you can, Tom!" called the Russian. "I
want to look at that place."

With a long, graceful sweep the young inventor sent the glider back
over the course. Ivan Petrofsky glued his eyes to the telescope. He
picked out the spot Mr. Damon had referred to, and a moment later cried:

"That's it! That's near the lost platinum mine! We've found it again,
Tom--everybody! Don't you remember, Peter," he said turning to his
brother, "when we were lost in the snow we crawled in among a tangle of
trees to get out of the blast. There was a sheet of white snow near
them, and you broke through into water. I pulled you out. That must
have been a lake, though it was lightly frozen over then. I believe
this is the lost mine. Go down, Tom! Go down!"

"I certainly will!" cried the youth, and pulling on the descending
lever he shunted the glider to earth.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE LEAKING TANKS


Like a bird descending from some dizzy height, the Vulture landed close
to the pool of black water. It was a small lake and the darkness must
have been caused by its depth, for later when they took some out in a
glass it was as clear as a crystal. Then, too, there might have been
black rocks on the bottom.

"Can it be possible that we are here at last?" cried Tom, above the
noise of the gale, for the wind was blowing at a terrific rate. But our
friends knew better now how to adjust themselves to it, and the lake
was down in a valley, the sides of which cut off the power of the gale.
As for the glider it was only necessary to equalize the balance and it
would remain stationary in any wind.

"This is the place! This is the place!" cried Ivan Petrofsky. "Don't
you remember, Peter?"

"Indeed I do! I have good cause to! This is where we found the
platinum!"

"Bless my soul!" cried Mr. Damon. "Where is it, in the lake?"

"The mine itself is just beyond that barrier of broken and twisted
trees," replied the elder Russian brother. "It is an irregular opening
in the ground, as though once, centuries ago, an ancient people tried
to get out the precious metal. We will go to it at once."

"But it is getting late," objected Ned.

"No matter," said Tom. "If we find any platinum we'll stay here all
night, and longer if necessary to get a good supply. This is better
than the city of gold, for we're in the open."

"I should say we were," observed Mr. Damon, as he bent to the blast,
which was strong, sheltered even as they were.

"Will it be safe to remain all night?" asked Mr. Borious, with a glance
about the desolate country.

"We have plenty of food," replied Tom, "and a good place to stay, in
the car of the glider. I don't believe we'll be attacked."

"No, not here," said the elder Petrofsky. "But we still have to go back
across Siberia to escape."

"We'll do it!" cried Tom. "Now for the platinum treasure!"

They went forward, and it was no easy work. For the wind still blew with
tremendous force though nothing like what it did higher up. And the
ground was uneven. They had to cling to each other and it was very
evident that no airship, not even the powerful Falcon, could have
reached the place. Only an air glider would answer.

It took them half an hour to get to the opening of the ancient mine,
and by that time it was nearly dark. But Tom had thought to bring
electric torches, such as he had used in the underground city of gold,
and they dispelled the gloom of the small cavern.

"Will you go in?" asked Ivan Petrofsky, when they had come to the
place.  He looked at Tom.

"Go in? Of course I'll go in!" cried our hero, stepping forward. The
others followed. For some time they went on, and saw no traces of the
precious metal. Then Ned uttered a cry, as he saw some dull, grayish
particles imbedded in the earth walls of the shaft.

"Look!" he cried.

Tom was at his chum's side in a moment.

"That's platinum!" cried the young inventor. "And of the very highest
grade! But the lumps are very small."

"There are larger ones beyond," said the younger Russian brother.

Forward they pressed, and a moment later coming around a turn in the
cavern where some earth had fallen away, evidently recently, Tom could
not repress a cry of joy. For there, in plain sight, were many large
lumps of the valuable metal, in as pure a state as it is ever found.
For it is always mixed with other metals or chemicals.

"Look at that!" cried Tom. "Look at that! Lumps as large as an egg!"
and he dug some out with a small pick he had brought along, and stuffed
them into his pocket.

"Bless my check book!" cried Mr. Damon, "and that stuff is as valuable
as gold!"

"More so!" cried Tom enthusiastically.

"Oh, here's a whopping big one!" cried Ned. "I'll bet it weighs ten
pounds."

"More than that!" cried Tom, as he ran over and began digging it out,
and they found later that it did. Platinum is usually found in small
granules, but there are records of chunks being found weighing twenty
pounds while others, the size of pigeons' eggs, are not uncommon.

"Say, this is great!" yelled Ned, discovering another large piece, and
digging it out.

"I am glad we could lead you to it," said the elder Russian brother.
"It is a small return for what you did for us!"

"Nonsense!" cried Tom. "These must be a king's ransom here. Everybody
dig it out! Get all you can."

They were all busy, but the light of the two torches Tom had brought
was not sufficient for good and efficient work, so after getting
several thousand dollars worth of the precious metal, they decided to
postpone operations until morning, and come with more lights.

They were at the work soon after breakfast, the night in the air glider
having passed without incident. The treasure of platinum proved even
richer than the Russians had thought, and it was no wonder the Imperial
government had tried so hard to locate it, or get on the trail of those
who sought it.

"And it's all good stuff!" cried Tom eagerly. "Not like that low-grade
gold of the underground city. I can make my own terms when I sell this."

For three days our friends dug and dug in that platinum mine, so many
years lost to man, and when they got ready to leave they had indeed a
king's ransom with them. But it was to be equally divided. Tom insisted
on this, as his Russian friends had been instrumental in finding it.
Toward the end of the excavation large pieces were scarce, and it was
evident that the mine was what is called a "lode."

"Well, shall we go back now?" asked Tom one day, after the finish of
their mining operations. The work was comparatively simple, as the
platinum lumps had merely to be dug out of the sides of the cave. But
the loneliness and dreariness of the place was telling on them all.

"Can't we carry any more?" asked Ned.

"We could, but it might not be safe. I don't want to take on too much
weight, as my glider isn't as stable as the airship. But we have plenty
of the metal.

"Indeed we have," agreed Ivan Petrofsky. "Much of mine and my brother's
will go toward helping relieve the sufferings of the Siberian exiles,"
he added.

"And mine, too," said Alexis Borious.

They started back early the next morning in a more terrific gale than
in any the glider had yet flown. But she proved herself a stanch craft,
and soon they were at the place where they had left the airship. It was
undisturbed.

Four days were spent in taking apart the glider and packing it on board
the Falcon. Then, with the platinum safely stored away Tom, with a last
look at the desolate land that had been so kind to them, sent his craft
on her homeward way.

It was when they were near the city of Pirtchina, on the Obi river,
that what might have proved a disastrous accident occurred. They were
flying along high, and at great speed, for Tom wanted to make all the
distance he could, to get out of Siberia the more quickly. They had had
a fair passage so far, and were congratulating themselves that they
would soon be in civilization again.

Suddenly, Mr. Damon, who had been on the after deck, taking
observations through a telescope, came running forward, crying out:

"Tom! Tom! What is that water dripping from the back part of the
airship?"

"Water?" exclaimed Tom. "No water is dripping from there."

"Come and look," advised Mr. Damon.

The young inventor raced back with him. He saw a thin, white stream
trickling down from the lower part of the craft. Tom sniffed the air
suspiciously.

"Gasolene! It's gasolene!" he cried. "We must have a leak in the supply
tanks!"

He dashed toward the reserve storeroom, and at that moment, with a
suddenness that was startling, the motor stopped and the Falcon lurched
toward the earth.




CHAPTER XXV

HOMEWARD BOUND--CONCLUSION


"All right!" yelled Ned, as soon as he heard Tom's cry. "I've got her
under control. We'll volplane down."

"Is it dangerous? Are we in danger?" asked Peter Petrofsky of his
brother, in Russian.

"I guess there's no danger, where Tom Swift's concerned," was the
answer. "I have not volplaned much, but it will be all right I think."

And it was, for with Ned Newton to guide the craft, while Tom did his
best to stop the leak, the craft came gently to earth on the outskirts
of a fairly large Siberian city. Almost instantly the Falcon was
surrounded by a curious throng.

"You had better keep inside," said Ivan Petrofsky to his brother and
Mr. Borious. "Descriptions of you are probably out broadcast by now,
but I am still sufficiently disguised, I think."

"But what is to be done?" demanded the younger Russian brother. "If the
gasolene is gone, how can we leave here?"

"Trust Tom Swift for that," was the reply. "Keep out of sight now,
there is a large crowd outside."

Tom came from the tank room. There was a despondent look on his face.

"It's all gone--every drop," he said. "That's what made the motor stop."

"What's gone?" asked Mr. Damon.

"The gasolene. We sprung a leak in the main tank, somehow, and it all
flowed out while we were flying along."

"Haven't you any more?"

"Not a bit. I was drawing on the reserve tank, hoping to get to
civilization before I needed more. But its too late now. We will have
to--"

"Bless my snow shoes!" cried Mr. Damon. "Don't say we'll have to stay
here--in Siberia! Don't say that. My wife--"

"No, we won't have to stay here if we can get a supply of kerosene,"
interrupted Tom. "The motor will burn that. The only trouble is that we
may be detained. The authorities probably know us by this time, and are
on the watch."

"Then get it before they know we are here," advised Ned.

"I'll try," said Tom, and he at once conferred with the elder
Petrofsky.  The latter said he was sure kerosene could be had in town,
and, rather than risk going in themselves, they hired a wagoner who
agreed, for liberal pay, to go and return with a quantity. Until then
there was nothing to do but wait.

Meanwhile the crowd of curiosity seekers grew. They thronged around the
airship, some of them meddling with various devices, until Tom had to
order them away with gestures.

One particularly inquisitive man insisted on pulling or twisting
everything, until he happened to touch a couple of live wires, giving
himself quite a shock, and then he ran away howling. But still the
crowd increased, and at last Mr. Petrofsky said:

"I don't like this, Tom?"

"Why not?" They were all inside the craft, looking out and waiting for
the return of the man with the kerosene. The leak in the tank had
proved to be a small one, and had quickly been soldered. It had been
open a long time, which accounted for the large amount of gasolene
escaping.  "What don't you like, Mr. Petrofsky?"

"So many men surrounding us. I believe some of them are officers
dressed in civilians' clothes, and a Russian officer never does that
unless he has some object."

"And you think the object is--?"

"To capture us."

"If it was that, wouldn't they have done it long ago--when we first
came down?"

"No, they are evidently waiting for something perhaps for some high
official, without whose orders they dare do nothing. Russia is overrun
with officialdom."

And a little later Ivan Petrofsky's suspicion proved true. There
arrived a man in uniform, who spoke fairly good English, and who
politely asked Tom if he would not delay the start of the airship,
again, until the governor could arrive from his country place to see it.

"We know you are going to leave us," said the Russian with a smile,
"for you have sent for kerosene. But please wait."

"If your governor comes soon we'll wait," replied Tom. "But we are in a
hurry. I wish that kerosene fellow would get a move on," he murmured.

"Oh, he will doubtless be here soon," said the officer. "Might I be
permitted to come aboard and wait for my chief?"

"Sorry, but it's not allowed," replied our hero, straining his eyes
down the road for a sight of the wagoner. At last he came, and Tom
breathed easier.

But the crowd was bigger, and some of the men, though poorly dressed,
seemed to be persons in authority. Tom had no doubt but what there was
a plot afoot to detain him, and arrest the exiles, and that there were
disguised soldiers in the throng. But they could not act without the
governor's orders, and he was probably on his way with all haste.

"Lively now, get that kerosene in the tanks!" cried Tom to the man,
motioning in lieu of using Russian. The youth was not going to meet the
governor if he could help it.

Now it was a curious thing, but the more that wagoner and his helpers
seemed to try to hurry, and pour the oil from the cans into the
tank-opening of the airship, the slower they worked. They got in each
others' way, dropped some cans, spilled others, and in general made
such poor work at it that Tom saw there was something in the wind.

"Ned!" he exclaimed, "they're doing all they can to detain us. We've
got to put that oil in ourselves. Just as we did the gasolene in
France.  It's the same sort of a delay game."

"Right, Tom! I'm with you."

"And I'll warn the crowd back, by telling them we are likely to blow up
any minute!" added Ivan Petrofsky, which warning he shouted in Russian
a moment later.

Backward leaped the throng, as though a bomb bad been thrown into their
midst, even the supposed officers joining in the retreat. The oil wagon
was now easy of access, and Tom and Ned, with Mr. Damon to aid them,
hastened toward it. Then the work of filling the tanks went on in
something like good old, United States fashion.

The last gallon of kerosene had been put aboard, and Tom and Ned with
Mr. Damon, had climbed on deck, when the gaily uniformed officer, who
had requested the delay, came riding up furiously.

"Hold! Hold! If you please!" he cried. "The governor has come. He wants
to see you."

"Too late!" answered Tom. "Give him our best regards and ask him to
come to the United States if he wants to see us. Sorry we haven't cards
handy. Ned, take the pilot house, and shoot her up sharp when you get
the signal. I'm going to run the motor. I don't know just how she'll
behave on the kerosene."

"You must remain!" angrily cried the officer.

"The United States doesn't take 'must' from anybody, from the Czar
down!" cried Tom as he disappeared into the motor room. The window was
open, and the youth turned on the power the official cried again to him:

"Halt! Here comes the governor! I declared you arrested by his orders,
and in the name of the Czar!"

"Nothing doing!" yelled Tom, and then, looking from the window, he saw
approaching a troop of Cossacks, in the midst of whom rode a man in a
brilliant uniform--evidently the governor.

"Stop! Stop!" cried the official.

"Here we go, Ned!" yelled Tom, and turning on more power the Falcon
arose swiftly, before the very eyes of the angry governor, and his
staff of Cossack soldiers.

Up and up she went, faster and faster, the motors working well on the
kerosene. Higher and higher. The governor and his soldiers were
directly below her now.

"Stop! Stop! You must stop. The Imperial governor orders it!" yelled
the officer, evidently his Excellency's aide-de-camp.

"We can't hear you!" shouted Tom, waving his hand from the motor room
window, and then, turning on still more power he flew over the city,
taking his friends and the valuable supply of platinum with him. So
surprised were the soldiers that they did not fire a shot, but had they
done so it is doubtful if much damage could have been done.

"And now for home!" cried Tom, and homeward hound the Falcon was after
a perilous trip through two storms. But she weathered them well.

In due season they reached Paris again, and now, having no reason for
concealment, they flew boldly down, to change what remained of the
kerosene for gasolene, as the motor worked better on that. The secret
police learned that the exiles were aboard, but they could do nothing,
as the offenses were political ones, and so Tom kept his friends safe.

Then they started on the long voyage across the Atlantic, and though
they had one bad experience in a storm over that mighty ocean, they got
safely home to Shopton in due season.

There is little more to tell. The platinum proved to be even more
valuable than Tom had expected. He could have sold it all for a large
sum, but he preferred to keep most of what he had for his inventive
work, and he used considerable of it in his machinery. Ned disposed of
his, selling Tom some at a lower price than market quotations, and the
Russians got a good price for theirs, turning the money into the fund
to help their fellow exiles. Mr. Damon also made a good donation to the
cause, as did Tom and Ned.

Mr. Petrofsky and his brother, with the other exile, joined friends in
New York, and promised to come and see Tom when they could.

"Well, I suppose you'll take a long vacation now," said Mary Nestor, to
Tom, when he called on her one evening to present her a unique ring,
with the stones set in some of the platinum he had dug in the Siberian
mine.

"Vacation? I have no time for vacations!" said the young inventor. "I'm
soon going to work on my silent airship, and on some other things I
have in mind. I want more adventures."

"Oh, you greedy boy!" exclaimed Mary with a laugh.

And what adventures Tom had next will be found in the next book of this
series, which will be entitled, "Tom Swift in Captivity; Or, a Daring
Escape by Airship."

Tom had several offers to give exhibitions in his air glider, from
aviation committees at various meets, but he declined.

"I haven't time," he declared. "I'm too busy."

"You ought to rest," his chum Ned advised him.

"'Bless my alarm clock!' as Mr. Damon would say," exclaimed Tom. "The
best rest is new work," and then he began sketching his ideas for a
silent motor craft, during which we will take leave of him for a while.

End 





TOM SWIFT IN CAPTIVITY

OR

A Daring Escape by Airship

BY VICTOR APPLETON

AUTHOR OF "TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR-CYCLE," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS
WIRELESS MESSAGE," "TOM SWIFT IN THE CITY OF GOLD," ETC.

ILLUSTRATED






CONTENTS


    I   A STRANGE REQUEST
   II   THE CIRCUS MAN
  III   TOM WILL GO
   IV   "LOOK OUT FOR MY RIVAL!"
    V   ANDY FOGER LEARNS SOMETHING
   VI   ALARMING NEWS
  VII   FIRE ON BOARD
 VIII   A NARROW ESCAPE
   IX   "FORWARD MARCH!"
    X   A WILD HORSE STAMPEDE
   XI   CAUGHT IN A LIVING ROPE
  XII   A NATIVE BATTLE
 XIII   THE DESERTION
  XIV   IN GIANT LAND
   XV   IN THE "PALACE" OF THE KING
  XVI   THE RIVAL CIRCUS MAN
 XVII   HELD CAPTIVES
XVIII   TOM'S MYSTERIOUS BOX
  XIX   WEAK GIANTS
   XX   THE LONE CAPTIVE
  XXI   A ROYAL CONSPIRACY
 XXII   THE TWIN GIANTS
XXIII   A SURPRISE IN THE NIGHT
 XXIV   THE AIRSHIP FLIGHT
  XXV   TOM'S GIANT--CONCLUSION




CHAPTER I

A STRANGE REQUEST


Tom Swift closed the book of adventures he had been reading, tossed
it on the table, and got up. Then he yawned.

"What's the matter?" asked his chum, Ned Newton, who was deep in
another volume.

"Oh, I thought this was going to be something exciting," replied
Tom, motioning toward the book he had discarded. "But say! the
make-believe adventures that fellow had, weren't anything compared to
those we went through in the city of gold, or while rescuing the
exiles of Siberia."

"Well," remarked Ned, "they would have to be pretty classy
adventures to lay over those you and I have had lately. But where
are you going?" he continued, for Tom had taken his cap and started
for the door.

"I thought I'd go out and take a little run in the aeroplane. Want
to come along? It's more fun than sitting in the house reading about
exciting things that never have happened. Come on out and--"

"Yes, and have a tumble from the aeroplane, I suppose you were going
to say," interrupted Ned with a laugh. "Not much! I'm going to stay
here and finish this book."

"Say," demanded Tom indignantly. "Did you ever know me to have a
tumble since I knew how to run an airship?"

"No, I can't say that I did. I was only joking."

"Then you carried the joke too far, as the policeman said to the man
he found lugging off money from the bank. And to make up for it
you've got to come along with me."

"Where are you going?"

"Oh, anywhere. Just to take a little run in the upper regions, and
clear some of the cobwebs out of my head. I declare, I guess I've
got the spring fever. I haven't done anything since we got back from
Russia last fall, and I'm getting rusty."

"You haven't done ANYTHING!" exclaimed Ned, following his chum's
example by tossing aside the book. "Do you call working on your new
invention of a noiseless airship nothing?"

"Well, I haven't finished that yet. I'm tired of inventing things. I
just want to go off, and have some good fun, like getting
shipwrecked on a desert island, or being lost in the mountains, or
something like that. I want action. I want to get off in the jungle,
and fight wild beasts, and escape from the savages!"

"Say! you don't want much," commented Ned. "But I feel the same way,
Tom."

"Then come on out and take a run, and maybe we'll get on the track
of an adventure," urged the young inventor. "We won't go far, just
twenty or thirty miles or so."

The two youths emerged from the house and started across the big
lawn toward the aeroplane sheds, for Tom Swift owned several speedy
aircrafts, from a big combined aeroplane and dirigible balloon, to a
little monoplane not much larger than a big bird, but which was the
most rapid flier that ever breathed the fumes of gasolene.

"Which one you going to take, Tom?" asked Ned, as his chum paused in
front of the row of hangars.

"Oh, the little double-seated monoplane, I guess that's in good
shape, and it's easy to manage. When I'm out for fun I hate to be
tinkering with levers and warping wing tips all the while. The Lark
practically flies herself, and we can sit back and take it easy.
I'll have Eradicate fill up the gasolene tank, while I look at the
magneto. It needs a little adjusting, though it works nearly to
perfection since I put in some of that new platinum we got from the
lost mine in Siberia."

"Yes, that was a trip that amounted to something. I wouldn't mind
going on another like that, though we ran lots of risks."

"We sure did," agreed Tom, and then, raising his voice he called
out: "Rad, I say Rad! Where are you? I want you!"

"Comin', massa Tom, comin'," answered an aged colored man, as he
shuffled around the corner of the shed. "What do yo'-all want ob
me?"

"Put some gasolene in the Lark, Rad. Ned and I are going to take a
little flight. What were you doing?"

"Jest groomin' mah mule Boomerang, Massa Tom, dat's all. Po'
Boomerang he's gittin' old jest same laik I be. He's gittin' old,
an' he needs lots ob 'tention. He has t' hab mo' oats dan usual,
Massa Tom, an' he doan't feel 'em laik he uster, dat's a fac', Massa
Tom."

"Well, Rad, give him all he wants. Boomerang was a good mule in his
day."

"An' he's good yet, Massa Tom, he's good yet!" said Eradicate
Sampson eagerly. "Doan't yo' all forgit dat, Massa Tom." And the
colored man proceeded to fill the gasolene tank, while Tom adjusted
the electrical mechanism of his aeroplane, Ned assisting by handing
him the tools needed. Eradicate, who said he was named that because
he "eradicated" dirt, was a colored man of all work, who had been in
the service of the Swift household for several years. He and his
mule Boomerang were fixtures.

"There, I guess that will do," remarked Tom, after testing the
magneto, and finding that it gave a fat, hot spark. "That ought to
send us along in good shape. Got all the gas in, Rad?"

"Every drop, Massa Tom."

"Then catch hold and help wheel the Lark out. Ned, you steady her on
that side. How are the tires? Do they need pumping up?"

"Hard as rocks," answered Tom's chum, as he tapped his toe against
the rubber circlets of the small bicycle wheels on which the
aeroplane rested.

"Then they'll do, I guess. Come on now, and we'll give her a test
before we start off. I ought to get a few hundred more revolutions
per minute out of the motor with the way I've adjusted the magneto.
Rad, you and Ned hold back, while I turn the engine over."

The youth and the colored man grasped the rear supports of the long,
tail-like part of the monoplane while Tom stepped to the front to
twist the propeller blades. The first two times there was no
explosion as he swung the delicate wooden blades about, but the
third time the engine started off with a roar, and a succession of
explosions that were deafening, until Tom switched in the muffler,
thereby cutting down the noise. Faster and faster the propeller
whirled about as the motor warmed up, until the young inventor
exclaimed:

"That's the stuff! She's better than ever! Climb up Ned, and we'll
start off. You can turn her over, Rad; can't you?"

"Suah, Massa Tom," was the reply, for Eradicate had been on so many
trips with Tom, and had had so much to do with airships, that to
merely start one was child's play for him.

The two youths had scarcely taken their seats, and the colored man
was about to twist around the fan-like blades of the big propeller
in front, when from behind there came a hail.

"Hold on there! Wait a minute, Tom Swift! Bless my admission ticket,
don't go! I've got something important to tell you! Hold on!"

"Humph! I know who that is!" cried Tom, motioning to Eradicate to
cease trying to start the motor.

"Mr. Damon, of course," agreed Ned. "I wonder what he wants?"

"A ride, maybe," went on Tom. "If he does we've got to take the
Scooter instead of this one. That holds four. Well, we may as well
see what he wants."

He jumped lightly from his seat in the monoplane and was followed by
Ned. They saw coming toward them, from the direction of the house, a
stout man, who seemed very much excited. He was walking so fast that
he fairly waddled, and he was smiling at the lads, for he was one of
their best friends.

"Glad I caught you, Tom." he panted, for his haste had almost
deprived him of breath. "I've got something important to tell you. I
hurried over as soon as I heard about it."

"Well, you're just in time," commented Ned with a laugh. "In another
minute we'd have been up in the clouds."

"What is it, Mr. Damon?" asked Tom. "Have you got wind of a city of
diamonds, or has some one sent you a map telling where we can go to
pick up ten thousand dollar bills by the basket?"

"Neither one, Tom, neither one. It's something better than either of
those, and if you don't jump at the chance I'm mistaken in you,
that's all I've got to say. Come over here."

He turned a quick glance over his shoulder as he spoke and advanced
toward the two lads on tiptoe as though he feared some one would see
or hear him. Yet it was broad daylight, the place was the starting
ground for Tom's aeroplanes and save Eradicate there was no one
present except Mr. Damon, Ned and the young inventor himself.

"What's up?" asked Tom in wonderment.

"Hush!" cautioned the odd gentleman. "Bless my walking stick, Tom!
but this is going to be a great chance for you--for us,--for I'm
going along."

"Going where, Mr. Damon?"

"I'll tell you in a minute. Is there any one here?"

"No one but us?"

"You are sure that Andy Foger isn't around."

"Sure. He's out of town, you know."

"Yes, but you never can tell when he's going to appear on the scene.
Come over here," and taking hold of the coat of each of the youths,
Mr. Damon led them behind the big swinging door of the aeroplane
shed.

"You haven't anything on hand; have you, Tom?" asked the odd
gentleman, after peering through the crack to make sure they were
unobserved.

"Nothing at all, if you mean in the line of going off on an
adventure trip."

"That's what I mean. Bless my earlaps! but I'm glad of that. I've
got just the thing for you. Tom, I want you to go to a strange land,
and bring back one of the biggest men there--a giant! Tom Swift, you
and I and Ned--if he wants to go--are going after a giant!"

Mr. Damon gleefully clapped Tom on the back, with such vigor that
our hero coughed, and then the odd gentleman stepped back and gazed
at the two lads, a look of triumph shining in his eyes.

For a moment there was a silence. Tom looked at Ned, and Ned gave
his chum a quick glance. Then they both looked sharply at Mr. Damon.

"A--a giant," murmured Tom faintly.

"That's what I said," replied Mr. Damon. "I want you to help me
capture a giant, Tom."

Once more the two youths exchanged significant glances, and then
Tom, in a low and gentle voice said:

"Yes, Mr. Damon, that's all right. We'll get you a giant right away.
Won't we, Ned? Now you'd better come in the house and lie down, I'll
have Mrs. Baggert make you a cup of tea, and after you have had a
sleep you'll feel better. Come on," and the young inventor gently
tried to lead his friend out from behind the shed door.

"Look here, Tom Swift!" exclaimed the odd gentleman indignantly. "Do
you think I'm crazy? Lie down? Rest myself? Go to sleep? Say, I'm
not crazy! I'm not tired! I'm not sleepy! This is the greatest
chance you ever had, and if we get one of those giants--"

"Yes, yes, we'll get one," put in Ned soothingly.

"Of course," added Tom. "Come on, now, Mr. Damon. You'll feel better
after you've had a rest. Dr. Perkinby is coming over to see father
and I'll have him--"

Mr. Damon gave one startled glance at the young inventor and his
chum, and then burst into a peal of hearty laughter.

"Oh, my!" he exclaimed at intervals in his paroxysms. "Oh, dear! He
thinks I'm out of my head! He can't stand that talk about giants! Oh
dear! Tom Swift, this is the greatest chance you ever had! Come on
in the house and I'll tell you all I know about giant land, and then
if you want to think I'm crazy you can, that's all I've got to say!"




CHAPTER II

THE CIRCUS MAN


Without a word Tom and Ned followed Mr. Damon toward the Swift
house. Truth to tell the youths did not know what to say, or they
would have been bubbling over with questions. But the talk of the
odd man, and his strange request to Tom to go off and capture a
giant had so startled the young inventor and his chum that they did
not know whether to think that Mr. Damon was joking, or whether he
had suddenly taken leave of his senses.

And while I have a few minutes that are occupied in the journey to
the house I will introduce my new readers more formally to Tom Swift
and his friends.

Tom though only a young man, was an inventor of note, as his father
was before him. Father and son lived in a fine house in the town of
Shopton, in New York state, and Mrs. Swift being dead, the two were
well looked after by Mrs. Baggert their housekeeper. Eradicate
Sampson, as I have said, was the man of all work about the place.
Ned Newton who had a position in a Shopton bank, was Tom's
particular chum, and Mr. Wakefeld Damon, of the neighboring town of
Waterfield, was a friend to all who knew him. He had the odd habit
of blessing anything and everything he could think of, interspersing
it in his talk.

In the first volume of this series, called "Tom Swift and His
Motor-Cycle," I related how Tom made the acquaintance of Mr. Damon,
afterward purchasing a damaged motor-cycle from the odd gentleman.
On this machine Tom had many adventures, incidentally saving some of
his father's valuable patents from a gang of conspirators. Later Tom
got a motor boat, and had many races with his rivals on Lake
Carlopa, beating Andy Foger, the red-haired bully of the town, in
signal fashion. After his adventures on the water Tom sighed for
some in the air, and he had them in his airship the Red Cloud.

"Tom Swift and His Submarine Boat." is a story of a search after
sunken treasure, and, returning from that quest Tom built an
electric runabout, the speediest car on the road. By means of a
wireless message, later, Tom was able to save himself and the
castaways of Earthquake Island, and, as a direct outcome of that
experience, he was able to go in search of the diamond makers, and
solve the secret of Phantom Mountain, as told in the book dealing
with that subject.

When he went to the caves of ice Tom had bad luck, for his airship
was wrecked, and he endured many hardships in getting home with his
companions, particularly as Andy Foger sought revenge on him.

But Tom pluckily overcame all obstacles and, later, he built a sky
racer, in which he made the quickest trip on record. After that,
with his electric rifle, he went after elephants in the interior of
Africa and was successful in rescuing some missionaries from the
terrible red pygmies.

One of the mission workers, later, sent Tom details about a buried
city of gold in Mexico, and Tom and his chum together with Mr. Damon
located this mysterious place after much trouble, as told in the
book entitled, "Tom Swift in the City of Gold." The gold did not
prove as valuable as they expected, as it was of low grade, but they
got considerable money for it, and were then ready for more
adventures.

The adventures soon came, as those of you who have read the book
called, "Tom Swift and His Air Glider," can testify. In that I told
how Tom went to Siberia, and after rescuing some Russian political
exiles, found a valuable deposit of platinum, which to-day is a more
valuable metal than gold. Tom needed some platinum for his
electrical machines, and it proved very useful.

He had been back from Russia all winter and, now that Spring had
come again, our hero sighed for more activity, and fresh adventures.
And with the advent of Mr. Damon, and his mysterious talk about
giants, Tom seemed likely to be gratified.

The two chums and the odd gentleman continued on to the house, no
one speaking, until finally, when they were seated in the library,
Mr. Damon said:

"Well, Tom, are you ready to listen to me now, and have me explain
what I meant when I asked you to get a giant?"

"I--I suppose so," hesitated the young inventor. "But hadn't I
better call dad? And are you sure you don't want to lie down and
collect your thoughts? A nice hot cup of tea--"

"There, there, Tom Swift; If you tell me to lie down again, or
propose any more tea I'll use you as a punching bag, bless my boxing
gloves if I don't!" cried Mr. Damon and he laughed heartily. "I know
what you think, Tom, and you, too, Ned," he went on, still
chuckling. "You think I don't know what I'm saying, but I'll soon
prove that I do. I'm fully in my senses, I'm not crazy, I'm not
talking in my sleep, and I'm very much in earnest. Tom, this is the
chance of your life to get a giant, and pay a visit to giant land.
Will you take it?"

"Mr. Damon, I--er--that is I--"

Tom stammered and looked at Ned.

"Now look here, Tom Swift!" exclaimed the odd man. "When you got
word about the buried city of gold in Mexico you didn't hesitate a
minute about making up your mind to go there; did you?"

"No, I didn't."

"Well, that wasn't any more of a strain on your imagination than
this giant business; was it?"

"Well, I don't know, as--"

"Bless my spectacles! Of course it wasn't! Now, look here. Tom, you
just make up your mind that I know what I'm talking about, and we'll
get along better. I don't blame you for being a bit puzzled at
first, but just you listen. You believe there are such things as
giants; don't you?"

"I saw a man in the circus once, seven feet high. They called him a
giant," spoke Ned.

"A giant! He was a baby compared to the kind of giants I mean," said
Mr. Damon quickly. "Tom, we are going after a race of giants, the
smallest one of which is probably eight feet high, and from that
they go on up to nearly ten feet, and they're not slim fellows
either, but big in proportion. Now in giant land--"

"Here's Mrs. Baggert with a quieting cup of tea," interrupted Tom.
"I spoke to her as we came in, and asked her to have some ready. If
you'll drink this, Mr. Damon, I'm sure--"

"Bless my sugar bowl, Tom! You make a man nervous, with your cups of
tea. I'm more quiet than you, but I'll drink it to please you. Now
listen to me."

"All right, go ahead."

"A friend of mine has asked me if I knew any one who could undertake
to go to giant land, and get him one or two specimens of the big men
there. I at once thought of you, and I said I believed you would go.
And I'll go with you, Tom! Think of that! I've got faith enough in
the proposition to go myself!"

There was no mistaking Mr. Damon's manner. He was very much in
earnest, and Tom and Ned looked at each other with a different light
in their eyes.

"Who is your friend, and where in the world is giant land?" asked
Tom. "I haven't heard of such a place since I read the accounts of
the early travelers, before this continent was discovered. Who is
your friend that wants a giant?"

"If you'll let me, I'll have him here in a minute, Tom."

"Of course I will. But good land! Have you got him concealed up your
sleeve, or under some of the chairs? Is he a dwarf?" and Tom looked
about the room as if he expected to see some one in hiding.

"I left him outside in the garden, Tom," replied the odd man. "I
told him I'd come on ahead, and see how you took the proposition.
Don't tell him you thought me insane at first. I'll have him here in
a jiffy. I'll signal to him."

Not waiting for a word from either of the boys, Mr. Damon went to
one of the low library windows, opened it, gave a shrill whistle and
waved his handkerchief vigorously. In a moment there came an
answering whistle.

"He's coming," announced the odd gentleman.

"But who is he?" insisted Tom. "Is he some professor who wants a
giant to examine, or is he a millionaire who wants one for a body
guard?"

"Neither one, Tom. He's the proprietor of a number of circuses, and
a string of museums, and he wants a giant, or even two of them, for
exhibition purposes. There's lots of money in giants. He's had some
seven, and even eight feet tall, but he has lately heard of a land
where the tallest man is nearly ten feet high, and very big, and
he'll pay ten thousand dollars for a giant alive and in good
condition, as the animal men say. I believe we can get one for him,
and--Ah, here he is now," and Mr. Damon interrupted himself as a
small, dark-complexioned man, with a very black mustache, black
eyes, a watch chain as big around as his thumb, a red vest, a large
white hat, and a suit of large-sized checked clothes appeared at the
open library window.

"Is it all right?" this strange-appearing man asked of Mr. Damon.

"I believe so," replied the odd gentleman. "Come in, Sam."

With one bound, though the window was some distance from the ground,
the little man leaped into the library. He landed lightly on his
feet, quickly turned two hand springs in rapid succession, and then,
without breathing in the least rapidly, as most men would have done
after that exertion, he made a low bow to Tom and Ned.

"Boys, let me introduce you to my friend, Sam Preston, an old
acrobat and now a circus proprietor," said Mr. Damon. "Mr. Preston,
this is Tom Swift, of whom I told you, and his chum, Ned Newton."

"And will they get the giant for me?" asked the circus man quickly.

"I think they will," replied Mr. Damon. "I had a little difficulty
in making the matter clear to them, and that's why I sent for you.
You can explain everything."

"Have a chair," invited Tom politely. "This is a new one on me--going
after giants. I've done almost everything else, though."

"So Mr. Damon said," spoke Mr. Preston gravely. He was much more
sedate and composed than one would have supposed after his
sensational entrance into the room. "I am very glad to meet you, Tom
Swift, and I hope we can do business together. Now, if you have a
few minutes to spare, I'll tell you all I know about giant land."




CHAPTER III

TOM WILL GO


"Jove! That sounds interesting!" exclaimed Ned, as he settled
himself comfortably in his chair.

"It is interesting," replied the circus man. "At least I found it so
when I first listened to one of my men tell it. But whether it is
possible to get to giant land, and, what is more bring away some of
the big men, is something I leave to you, Tom Swift. After you have
heard my story, if you decide to go, I'll stand all the expenses of
fitting out an expedition, and if you fail I won't have a word to
say. If, on the other hand, you bring me back a giant or two, I'll
pay you ten thousand dollars and all expenses. Is it a bargain?"

"Let me hear the story first," suggested our hero, who was a
cautious lad when there was need for it. Yet he liked Mr. Preston,
even at first sight, in spite of his "loud" attire, and the rather
"circusy" manner in which he had entered the room. Then too, if he
was a friend of Mr. Damon, that was a great deal in his favor.

"I am, as you know, in the circus business," began Mr. Preston. "I
have a number of traveling shows, and several large museums in the
big cities. I am always on the lookout for new attractions, for the
public demands them. Once get in the rut of having nothing new, and
your business will fall off. I know, for I've been in the business,
man and boy, for nearly forty years. I began as a performer, and I
can still do a double somersault over fifteen elephants in a row. I
always keep in practice for there's nothing like showing a performer
how to do a thing yourself."

"But about the giants, which is what I'm interested in most now. Of
course I've had giants in my circuses and museums, from the
beginning. The public wanted 'em and we had to have 'em. Some of 'em
were fakes--men on stilts with long pants to cover up their legs,
and others were the real, genuine, all-wool-and-a-yard-wide article.
But none of them were very big. A shade under eight feet was the
limit with me."

"I also have lots of wild animals, and it was when some of my men
were out after some tapirs, jaguars and leopards that I got on the
track of the giants. It was about a year ago, but up to this time I
haven't seen my way clear to send after the big men. It was this
way:"

Mr. Preston assumed a more comfortable position in his chair, nodded
at Mr. Damon, who was listening attentively to all that was said,
and resumed.

"As I said I had sent Jake Poddington, one of my best men, after
tapirs and some other South American animals. He didn't have very
good luck hunting along the Amazon. In the first place that region
has been pretty well cleaned out of circus animals, and another
thing it's getting too well populated. Another thing is that you
can't get the native hunters and beaters to work for you as they did
years ago."

"So Poddington wrote to me that he was going to take his assistants,
make a big jump, and hike it for the Argentine Republic. He had a
tip that along the Salado river there might be something doing, and
I told him to go ahead."

"He shipped me what few animals he had, and lit out for a three
thousand mile journey. I didn't hear from him for some time, and,
when I did, I got the finest collection of animals I had ever laid
eyes on. I got them about the same time I did a letter from Jake,
for the mail service ain't what you could call rushing in that part
of South America."

"But what about the giants?" interrupted Mr. Damon.

"I'm coming to them," replied the circus man calmly. "It was this
way: At the tail of his letter which he sent with the shipment of
animals Jake said this, and I remember it almost word for word:"

"'If all goes well,' he wrote, 'I'll have a big surprise for you
soon. I've heard a story about a race of big natives that have their
stamping ground in this section, and I'm going to try for a few
specimens. I know how much you want a giant.'"

"Well?" asked Tom, after a pause, for the circus man had ceased
talking and was staring out of the opened library window into the
garden that was just becoming green.

"That was all I ever heard from poor Jake," said Mr. Preston softly.

"Bless my insurance policy!" gasped Mr. Damon. "You didn't tell me
that! What happened to him."

"I never could find out," resumed Mr. Preston. "I never heard
another word from him, and I've never seen him from the time I
parted with him to go after the animals. The letter saying he was
going after the giants was the last line of his I've seen."

"But didn't you try to locate him?" asked Tom. "Didn't he have some
companions--some one who could tell what became of him?"

"Of course I tried!" exclaimed Mr. Preston. "Do you think I'd let a
man like Jake disappear without making some effort to find him? But
he was the only white man in his party, the rest were natives. That
was Jake's way. Well, when some time past and I didn't hear from
him, I got busy. I wrote to our consuls and even some South American
merchants with whom I had done business. But it didn't amount to
anything."

"Couldn't you get any news?" asked Ned softly.

"Oh, yes, some, but it didn't amount to much. After a long time, and
no end of trouble, I had a man locate a native named Zacatas, who
was the head beater of the black men under Jake."

"Zacatas said that he and Jake and the others got safely to the
Salado river section, but I knew that before, for that was where the
fine shipment of animals came from. Then Jake got that tip about the
giants, and set off alone into the interior to locate them, for all
the natives were afraid to go. That was the last seen of poor Jake."

"Bless my fire shovel!" cried Mr. Damon. "What did Zacatas say
became of the poor fellow?"

"No one knew. Whether he reached giant land and was killed there, or
whether he was struck down by some wild beast in the jungle, I never
could find out. The natives under Zacatas waited in camp for him for
some time, and then went back to the Amazon region where they
belonged. That's all the news I could get."

"But I'm sure there are giants in the interior of South America, for
Jake always knew what he was talking about. Now I want to do two
things. I want to get on the trail of poor Jake Poddington if I can,
and I want a giant--two or three of them if it can be managed."

"Ever since Jake disappeared I've been trying to arrange things to
make a search for him, and for the giants, but up to now something
has been in the way. I happened to mention the matter to my friend,
Mr. Damon, and he at once spoke of you, Tom Swift."

"Now, what I want to know is this: Will you undertake to get a giant
for me, rescue Jake Poddington if he is alive in the interior of
South America, or, if he is dead, find out how it happened and give
him decent burial? Will you do this, Tom Swift?"

There was a silence in the room following the dramatic and simple
recital of the circus man. Tom was strangely moved, as was his chum
Ned. As for Mr. Damon, he was softly blessing every thing he could
think of.

Tom looked out of the long, opened windows of the library. In fancy
he could see the forest and jungles of South America. He saw a
sluggish river flowing along between rank green banks, while, from
the overhanging trees, long festoons of moss hung down, writhing now
and then as the big water anacondas or boa constrictors looped their
sinuous folds over the low limbs.

In fancy he saw dark-skinned natives slinking along with their
deadly blow guns, and poisoned arrows. He thought he could hear the
low growls and whines of the treacherous jaguars and see their lithe
bodies slinking along. He saw the brilliant-hued flowers, saw the
birds of gorgeous plumage, and listened in fancy to their discordant
cries.

Then, too, he saw a lonely white man in a miserable native hut
thousands of miles from civilization, waiting, waiting, waiting for
he knew not what fate. Again he saw monstrous men stalking along--men
who towered ten feet or more, and who were big and brawny. All
this passed through the mind of Tom in an instant.

"Well?" asked Mr. Preston softly.

"I'll go!" suddenly cried the young inventor. "I don't know whether
I can get you a giant or not, Mr. Preston, but if it's possible I'll
get poor Jake Poddington, dead or alive!"

"Good!" cried the circus man, jumping up and clasping Tom's hand. "I
thought you were that kind of a lad, after I heard Mr. Damon
describe you. You've taken a big load off my heart, Tom Swift. Now
to talk of ways and means! I'll have a giant yet, and maybe I'll get
back the best man who ever shipped a consignment of wild animals,
good Jake Poddington! Now to business!"




CHAPTER IV

"LOOK OUT FOR MY RIVAL!"


"You'll go in an airship of course; won't you, Tom?" asked Mr.
Damon, when they had pulled their chairs up around a library table,
and Mr. Preston had taken some papers from his pocket.

"An airship? No, I don't believe I shall," replied the young
inventor. "In the first place, I'm a bit tired of scooting through
the air so much, though it isn't to be denied that it's the quickest
way of going. But in South America there are so many jungles that it
will be hard to find a level starting ground for a take-off, after
we land. Of course we could go up as a balloon, but this expedition
is going to be different from any we were ever on before."

"How so?" asked Ned.

"Well, in the first place we've got to start at one end of a trail,
and make careful inquiries all along the way. It isn't like when we
went for the city of gold. There we had to look for a certain ruined
temple, which was the landmark. When we went after the platinum in
Siberia we had to look for the place of the high winds, so I could
use my air glider. But now we're trying to locate a man who traveled
on foot through the jungles, and if we went in an airship we might
just miss the connecting link."

"So, I think the best way will be to do just as Mr. Poddington
did--travel on foot or by horses and mules, and go slowly, making
inquiries from time to time. Then we MAY get to giant land, we MAY
find him."

"I don't hope for all that," said the circus man, "but if you can
only get some news of him it will be a relief. If he died peaceably
it would be better than to be a captive among some of those savage
tribes. It's been a year now since I heard the last of him. But I
agree with Tom that an airship won't be much good in the jungle. You
might take along a small one, if you could pack it, to scare the
natives with. In fact it might be a good thing to show to the
giants, if you find them."

"That is my idea," declared Tom. "I'll take the Lark with me. That's
a mighty powerful machine for its size, and it can be taken apart in
sections. It will carry three on a pinch, and I have had five in her
with two auxiliary seats. I'll take the Lark, and she may come in
handy."

"When can you start?" asked Mr. Preston.

"As soon as we can fit out an expedition," answered Tom. "It
oughtn't to take long. I don't have to build an air glider this
time. It won't take long to take the Lark apart. I haven't finished
work on my noiseless airship yet, but that can wait. Yes, we'll be
ready as soon as you want us to start, Mr. Preston."

"It can't be too soon for me. I'll deposit a certain sum in the bank
to your credit, Tom, and you can draw on it for expenses. I'll pay
any amount to get word of poor Jake, to say nothing of having a
giant for my circus. Now as to ways of getting there. Have you a
large map of South America?"

Tom had one, and he and the others were pouring over it when Tom's
father came into the room.

"Well, well!" he exclaimed. "What's this? What are you up to now,
Tom, my boy? Mrs. Baggert said you took down the South American map.
What's up?"

"Lots, dad? I'm going after giants this time!"

"Giants, Tom? Are you joking?"

"Not a bit of it, Mr. Swift," answered Mr. Damon. "Bless my check
book! I believe if some one wanted the moon Tom Swift would try to
get it for them."

Then Mr. Swift noticed the stranger present, and was introduced to
the circus man.

"Is it really true, Tom," asked the aged inventor, when the story
had been related, "are you going to have a try for giant land?"

"That's what I am, dad, and I wish you were going along."

"No, Tom, I'm getting too old for that. But I did hope you'd stay
home for a while, and help me work on my gyroscope invention. It is
almost completed."

"I will help you, dad, as soon as I get back with a giant or two.
Who knows? maybe I'll get one myself."

"What would you do with one?" asked Ned with a laugh.

"Have him help Eradicate," answered the young inventor. "Rad is
getting pretty old, and he needs an assistant."

"But are these giants black?" asked Mr. Swift.

"That's a point I don't know," answered the circus man frankly.
"Jake didn't say in his letter. They may be black, white or midway
between. That's what Tom has got to find out for us."

"And I'll do it!" exclaimed our hero. "Now let's see. I suppose the
best plan would be to take a ship right to the Rio de la Plata,
landing say at Buenos Ayres or Montevideo, and then organize an
expedition to strike into the interior."

"Why don't you do just as Mr. Poddington did?" asked Ned, "start
from the Amazon and work south?"

"It would take too long," declared Tom. "We know that the giants are
somewhere in the northern part of Argentina, or in Paraguay or
Uruguay. Or they may be on the other side of the Uruguay river in
Brazil. It's quite a stretch of territory, and we've got to take our
time exploring it. That's why I don't want to waste time working
down from the Amazon. We'll go right to Buenos Ayres, I think."

"That's what I'd do," advised the old circus man. "Now I can give
you some points on what to take, and how to act when you get there.
The South Americans are a queer people--very nice when treated
right, but very bad if not," and then he told some of his
experiences as a circus man in South America, for he had traveled
there.

"I'd go again, if my business didn't keep me here," he concluded,
"for I'd ask nothing better than to hunt for giant land, or try to
rescue poor Jake. But I can't. I'm depending on you, Tom Swift."

"What's that? Giant land?" exclaimed Mrs. Baggert, the motherly
housekeeper, as she came in to announce that dinner was ready. "You
don't mean to tell me, Tom, that you're going off again?"

"That's what I am, Mrs. Baggert. You'd better put me up a few
sandwiches, for I don't know when I'll be back," and Tom winked at
his chum.

"Oh, of all things I ever heard in all my born days!" cried the
housekeeper, throwing up her hands. "Will you ever settle down, Tom
Swift?"

"Maybe he will when Miss Mary Nestor is ready to settle down too,"
said Ned mischievously, referring to a girl of whom Tom was very
fond.

"Say, I'll fix you for that!" cried our hero, as he made an
unsuccessful grab for Ned. "But, Mrs. Baggert, can you put on a
couple of extra plates? Mr. Damon and Mr. Preston will stay to
lunch."

"Not if it's going to put you out, Tom," objected the circus man. "I
can go to the hotel, and--"

"No, indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Baggert graciously, for she prided
herself on her housekeeping arrangements, and she used to say that
unexpected company never "flustrated" her. Soon the little party was
seated around the table, where the talk went from grave to gay, the
subject of the giants being uppermost.

Mr. Preston told many funny stories of his circus days, and some of
them had the spice of danger in them, for he had been all over the
world, either as a performer or as the owner of amusement
enterprises.

"Now, the next question to be settled," said the old circus man,
when they were once more gathered in the library, "is how many are
going?"

"I am, for one!" exclaimed Ned quickly. "I'm sure my folks will let
me. Especially as we aren't going to use an airship, but will travel
just as ordinary folks do."

"Except in case of emergency," explained Tom. "We'll have the Lark
to use if we need her."

"Oh, of course," agreed Ned. "How about you, Mr. Damon? Will you
go?"

The odd man looked around the room before replying, as though he
feared someone might be listening on the sly.

"Go on, Andy Foger isn't here," invited Tom with a laugh.

"I'll go--if I can pursuade my wife to let me," said the odd man in
a whisper, as if, even then, the good lady might overhear him. "I'm
not going to say anything about giants. I'll tell her we are going
to rescue a poor fellow from--er--well from the natives of South
America, and I'm sure she'll consent. Of course I'll go."

"That's three," remarked Tom. "I think I can get Eradicate to go. He
doesn't like airships, and when he knows we're not going in one it
will please him. Then he likes it hot, and I guess South America is
about as warm as they come. I am almost sure we can count on Rad."

"That will make a nice party," commented the circus man. "Now I'll
make out a list of the supplies you'd better take, and tell you what
to do about getting native helpers, and so on," and with that he
plunged into the midst of details that took up most of the remainder
of the day.

"Well, then I guess that settles most everything," remarked Tom,
several hours later. "I'll begin at once to take the Lark apart for
shipment, and begin ordering the things we need."

"Oh, there's one thing I almost forgot about," said Mr. Preston
suddenly. "Queer, how I should overlook that, too. I don't suppose
you mind a fight or two; do you?" he asked, looking sharply at Tom.

"Well, it all depends. We've had several fights on other
expeditions, though I can't say that I like 'em," replied the young
inventor. "Why do you ask?"

"Because you may have one--or several," was the answer of the circus
man. "You'll have to beware of my rival."

"Your rival?"

"Yes, the bitterest foe I have is a rival circus man named Wayland
Waydell. He, or some of his men, are always camping on my trail when
I send out after a new consignment of wild animals, and I shouldn't
be a bit surprised but what he'd try to get ahead of me on the giant
game."

"But how does he know you want giants?" asked Tom.

"Because news of circus expeditions always leaks out somehow or
other. I'm sure Waydell will learn that you are acting for me, and
so I warn you in time. In fact, he tried to get ahead of me when I
sent Jake Poddington out over a year ago, and I always had my
suspicions that he had a hand in Jake's disappearance, but maybe I'm
wrong. So that's what I mean when I say beware of Wayland Waydell,
Tom."

"I will!" exclaimed Tom. "He'll have to get up early to get ahead of
us." But Tom little knew the man against whom he was to pit himself
in the search for giants.




CHAPTER V

ANDY FOGER LEARNS SOMETHING


Once Tom Swift made up his mind to do a thing, he did not waste time
in setting about it. He had decided to go to giant land, and that
was all there was to it. His father talked with him about the
matter, pointed out the dangers, and suggested that, as the young
inventor had had many adventures in the last few years, and had made
considerable money from the discovery of the city of gold, and the
platinum mines, the prize offered for a giant was not much of an
inducement.

"But it isn't that so much, dad," explained Tom. "There's that poor
circus man, maybe suffering in the centre of South America. I want
to find him, if I can, or get some news that he died a natural
death, and is decently buried."

"You never can do it, Tom."

"Well dad, I'm going to make a big try!" he returned; and that
settled it as far as Tom was concerned.

For several days after the visit of Mr. Preston Tom was busy making
plans for his trip to South America. He wanted to lay out a regular
schedule before proceeding. Ned Newton had had hard work to persuade
his folks to let him go, but they finally consented, and as for Mr.
Damon, his plan was simple.

Without mentioning giants at all, he took Mr. Preston home with him,
and the circus man's tale of his assistant lost in the wilds of
South America was too much for Mrs. Damon.

"Go? Of course you'll go!" she said to her husband. "I demand that
you go, and I want you to find that poor man and rescue him. If you
could rescue the exiles from uncivilized Siberia I'm sure you can
get a man out of a civilized country."

Mr. Damon did not stop to point out that South America was far less
civilized, in some ways, than was Russia. He just kept still, and
made his preparations to go. Mr. Preston was a distant relative of
the odd man, and that was how he had happened to meet him and hear
the story which was destined to play such an important part in the
life of Tom Swift.

"Do you think we'll have much trouble after we get to South America,
and strike into the interior?" asked Mr. Damon one afternoon, when
he and Mr. Preston were helping Tom in the delicate work of packing
the wing planes of the Lark.

"No, South America isn't a bad country to travel in," replied the
circus man. "The natives are fairly friendly, and with a well-organized
party, and plenty of money, which I shall see that you have, you
ought to get along swimmingly. Only one thing bothers me."

"What's that?" asked Tom quickly.

"That's my rival, Waydell. He's sure to make trouble if he gets on
your trail."

"Have you heard from him?"

"No, and that's what makes me all the more suspicious. If he'd come
out and fight me in the open it wouldn't be so bad. But this
underhand business gets on my nerves. I don't know what he's up to."

"Maybe he isn't up to anything," suggested Ned. "He may not even
know you are going to make another try for the giants."

"Oh, yes, he does," replied the circus man. "He didn't succeed in
beating me when poor Jake was after them, for the simple reason that
it was a snap case, and even I didn't know that Poddington was
trying for the giants until he had started. But Waydell was soon
after him, and he knows that when I once set out for a freak or a
certain kind of animal I keep on until I get it. So he has probably
already figured out that I'm making new plans to get a giant."

"But how will he know that I am going?" inquired Tom.

"I don't know how he will know, but he will. We circus men have
queer ways of finding out things. I shouldn't be a bit surprised but
what he was already plotting and scheming to send an expedition on
my trail, to take advantage of anything you may learn."

"Well, we'll try and fool him, the same as we did the Mexicans when
we hunted for the city of gold," spoke Tom; and then putting aside
that worry, he and the others labored hard to get matters in shape
for a departure to South America.

"I suppose Eradicate is going," remarked Ned, in the intervals of
packing the aeroplane.

"Well, I've hinted it to him," replied Tom, "but I haven't asked him
outright. He said he wouldn't mind going to a hot country though.
Here he comes now. Guess I'll see how he takes it."

The colored man shuffled up with a hammer and nails, for he had been
putting covers on packing boxes.

"Then you are coming with us to South America; aren't you, Rad?"
asked Tom, winking at Ned.

"Souf America? Am dat de hot country yo'-all was referencin' to?"
asked Eradicate.

"That's it, Rad. It's nice and warm there. All you have to do is to
lie under a tree and cocoanuts will drop off into your mouth."

"Cocoanuts in mah mouf, Massa Tom! 'Scuse me! I doan't want t' go to
no sich country as dat. Cocoanuts in mah mouf! Why I ain't got but a
few teef left, an' a cocoanut droppin' offen a tree would shorely
knock dem teef out, shorely!"

"Oh, Rad, I didn't mean cocoanuts! I meant oranges and bananas--
they're soft," and Tom glanced quickly at Ned, for he saw that he
had made a mistake.

"Oh, well, den dat's diffunt, Massa Tom. I jes lubs oranges an'
bananas, an' ef yo'-all is shore dat I'll find some, why, I'll come
along."

"Find 'em? Of course you will!" cried Ned.

"And cocoanuts, too," added Tom. "Only, Rad, I meant to say that the
monkeys would throw the cocoanuts down to you from the trees. That
breaks the hard shells you see, and all you have to do is to take
out the meat, and drink the milk. Then the monkeys throw you down a
palm leaf fan to cool yourself off, while you're eating it. Oh, I
tell you, Rad, South America is the place to go to have a good
time."

"I believe you, Massa Tom. When do we-all start?"

"Pretty soon now."

"An' what all am yo' gwine arter, Massa Tom?"

The young inventor thought a moment. In times past he had not
hesitated to confide in his colored helper, but of late years
Eradicate had become somewhat childish, and he talked more than was
necessary. Tom wondered whether it would be safe to trust the giant
secret to him. After a moment's thought he realized that it would
not be. But, at the same time, he knew that if he did not give some
kind of an answer Eradicate would become suspicious, and that would
be worse. The colored helper had been with Tom on too many trips not
to know that his master never went without some object.

"Well, Rad, we're after big game this time," Tom said. "I don't know
what it will be that we'll get, whether animals or plants, and--"

"Oh, I knows, Massa Tom. Yo'-all means dem orchard plants that lib
on air--dem big orchard plants." Eradicate meant orchids, of which
many rare and beautiful kinds are found in South America.

"Yes, Rad, I guess we will get some big orchids," agreed Tom.

"An' I shorely will help climb de trees arter 'em. Or maybe we kin
git de monkeys to frow em down, same as dey will de cocoanuts."

"Maybe, Rad. Well, now go ahead and nail up the rest of these boxes.
We want to get started as soon as we can," and the colored man got
busy, murmuring from time to time something about oranges and
bananas and cocoanuts.

Everyone was occupied in getting matters in shape for the trip to
South America, even Mr. Swift laying aside his work on his pet
invention--a gyroscope--while he helped his son. And had Tom not
been quite so engrossed with his preparations he might have gone
about town more, in which case he would have learned something that
might have saved him and the others considerable trouble and no
little danger. And this fact was that Andy Foger had been in Shopton
several times lately.

After the trouble which the red-haired bully and his father caused
Tom and his friends on their trip to the city of gold, Mr. Foger
moved away from Shopton. He had lost his fortune and had to begin
all over again. The Foger homestead was closed up, and Andy ceased
to be a fixture of the town, for which Tom and Ned were very glad.

But of late Andy had been seen in Shopton several times, and it was
noticed that, on one or two occasions, he had a man with him--a man
who seemed to have plenty of money--a man with an air about him not
unlike that of Mr. Preston. A man with what newspaper men would have
called a circus or theatrical "air."

This man had visited Shopton soon after Mr. Preston made the giant
proposition to Tom, and before meeting Andy Foger had made special
inquiries about Tom Swift.

"Who are the people who have a hard feeling against this young
inventor in town?" the man had asked of several persons.

"Tom Swift has more friends than enemies," was the general reply.

"Oh, surely he must have some enemies," the man insisted. "He's been
running his aeroplanes and autos around town a long time, and surely
there must be some one who has a grudge against him. I suppose he
has lots of friends, but who are his enemies?"

Then he learned about Andy Foger, and, hearing that Andy now lived
in a nearby town, the man had at once gone there. It was not long
before he reappeared--and the red-haired bully was with him.

"And you haven't learned anything yet, Andy?" asked this mysterious
man one afternoon, when he met his tool in a quiet resort in
Shopton.

"Nothing yet, Mr. Waydell. But give me a little more time."

"Time! You've had more time now than you need. When I agreed to pay
you for finding out what part of South America Tom Swift would head
for to get some sort of a freak or animal for Preston's circus I
thought you'd make good quicker than this."

"So did I. But you see Tom is suspicious of me, and so is his chum,
Ned Newton. I can't go to them, and if I'm seen sneaking around the
house or shop, after what happened last, I'll be driven off."

"Well, it's up to you. I paid you to get the information and I
expect you to do it. Why don't you tackle that old colored man whom,
I understand, works for him? He ought to be simple enough to give
the game away."

"Eradicate? I will! I never thought of that I'll get that
information for you, Mr. Waydell, in a few days."

"You'd better, if you want to keep that money."

The two plotters parted, and that very afternoon gave Andy the
chance he wanted. He met Eradicate on his way to the village where
he was going after something Tom needed.

"Hello, Rad!" called Andy with a show of good feeling. "I haven't
seen you in some time. I suppose you're getting too old to travel
around with Tom any more?"

"Gittin' too old!" exclaimed the colored man indignantly, for that
was his sore point. "What yo'-all mean, Andy Foger? I ain't gittin'
old, an' neider am Boomerang."

"Oh, I thought you were, as you haven't been on any trips lately."

"I ain't, hey? Well I's gwine on one right soon, let me tell you
dat, Andy Foger!"

"No! Is that so? Glad to hear it. Up to the North Pole I suppose?"

"No, sah; not much! No cold country for this coon! I's gwine where
it's nice an 'warm, an' where de cocoanuts fall in yo' mouf--I mean
where de bananas an' oranges fall in you mouf, an' de monkeys frow
down cocoanuts an' palm leaf fans to yo'!"

"Where's that, Rad?" asked Andy, and he tried to make his voice
sound indifferent, as though the matter did not interest him.

"South America, dat's where it am, an' I's gwine wif Massa Tom. We's
gwine t' git a monstrous big orchard plant."

"Oh, yes; I've heard about them. Well, I hope you get all the
oranges and bananas you want. South America, eh? I suppose along the
Amazon river, where they have crocodiles forty feet long, that are
always hungry."

"No, sah! No crockermiles fo' me! We ain't goin' neah de Amerzon
riber at all. We's gwine away down in de middle part of South
America. It's a place suffin laik Gomeonaway--or Goonaway, or
suffin' laik dat."

"Oh, yes; I know where you mean!" and Andy could hardly conceal the
note of triumph in his voice. He had the very information he wanted
from the simple colored man. "Yes, I guess there are no crocodiles
there, and plenty of monkeys and cocoanuts. Well, I hope you have a
good time," and Andy hurried away to seek out the rival circus man.




CHAPTER VI

ALARMING NEWS


"Hand me that hammer, Ned."

"There it is, right behind you, on the bench."

"Oh, so it is. Here are those nails you were asking for."

"Good. Now we'll make things hum," and Ned Newton's voice was
drowned in the rapid driving of nails into boards.

"Bless my screw driver!" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Damon, who was
sawing planks to make covers for boxes.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom, looking up from a bundle he was
tying up. It contained the magneto of his aeroplane and he was
putting waterproof paper about it. "Did you cut your finger?"

"No, but I just happened to think that I nailed my watch up in that
last box."

"Nailed up your watch!" cried Mr. Preston, who, after a trip to New
York to make arrangements for passages on a steamer, had come back
to help Tom pack up.

"Yes, I took it out to see how long it took me to make a box cover,
and then Tom asked me to nail up that box containing the motor
parts, and I laid my watch right down on top, and put the boards
over it."

"Well, the only thing to do is to take off the cover," remarked Tom
grimly.

"Bless my chronometer! That will delay things," said the odd man
with a sigh. "But I suppose there is no hope for it," and he
proceeded to open the box, while Tom, Ned, the circus man and
Eradicate busied themselves over the hundred and one things to be
done before they would be ready for the trip to the interior of
South America.

"Look out, Ned!" called Tom. "You're making those top boards too
long. They'll stick out over the edge, and be ripped off if the box
catches on anything."

"Yes, you can't be too careful," cautioned Mr. Preston. "Each box or
package must be the right weight, or the porters and mule drivers
won't carry them into the interior. You may have to cross rough
trails, and even ford rivers. And as for bridges! well, the less
said about them the better. You aren't going to have any picnic, and
if you want to back out, Tom Swift, now is the time to say so."

"What! Back out?" cried our hero. "Never! I said I'd go and I'm
going. Ned, pass that brace and bit over, will you. I've got to bore
a hole for these screws."

And so the work went on in the big aeroplane shed, which they had
made their packing headquarters.

The Lark, that small, but strong and speedy aeroplane, had been
safely packed, and most of it had been sent on ahead to New York,
where the travellers were to take the steamer. There remained to be
transported their clothing, weapons and ammunition, and several
bundles and cases of trinkets which would be of more value in
bartering with the natives than money. Tom and Mr. Preston had
selected the things with great care, and at the last moment the
young inventor had packed a box of his own, and said nothing about
it. Included in it were some of his own and his father's inventions,
and had one been given a glance into that same box he would have
wondered at the queer things.

"What in the world are you taking with you, anyhow?" asked Ned, of
his chum, noticing the mysterious box.

"'You'll see, if we ever get to giant land," replied Tom with a
smile.

"How long before we can start?" asked Mr. Damon, late that day, when
most of the hard work had been finished. He was as anxious and as
eager as either of the youths to make a start.

"We ought to be ready at least a week from to-day," replied Tom,
"and perhaps sooner."

"Sooner, if you can make it," suggested Mr. Preston. "The steamer
sails a week from to-day, and if you miss that one you'll have to
wait two weeks more."

"Then a week from to-day we'll sail," decided Tom, with emphasis.
"We'll work nights getting things in shape."

Really, though, not much more remained to be done, and the next day
Mr. Preston again went to New York, accompanying a shipment of boxes
and cases that Tom sent on ahead.

The two chums were busy in the aeroplane hangar a few days after
this, nailing up the last of some light cases containing medicines,
personal effects and comforts that would accompany them on their
trip.

"Well, I'm glad of one thing," remarked Tom thoughtfully, as he
drove home the last nail in a box, "and that is that we won't be
bothered with that Andy Foger on this trip. I haven't seen hide nor
hair of him in some time. I guess he and his father are down and
out."

"I guess so. I haven't seen him either."

"Massa Andy were in town a few days ago," ventured Eradicate.

"He was?" cried Tom. "Did you see him? What was he doing, Rad?"

"Nuffin, same as usual. He done say I were too old to go on any more
hexpiditions wif yo' an' I proved dat I wasn't."

"Proved that you weren't, Rad? How?" And Tom looked anxiously at his
colored helper.

"Why, I done say t' him dat I was gwine wif yo'-all dis time, t' dat
Comeaway country after a big orchard plant. Dat's how I done prove
it to dat Andy Foger."

"Rad, you didn't tell him we were going to South America?" asked Tom
reproachfully.

"Suah I done so, Massa Tom. Dat were de only way t' prove t' him dat
I wa'an't gittin' too old."

"Oh, Rad! I'm afraid--" and Tom hesitated.

"Oh, I don't believe it amounted to anything," interposed Ned. "Andy
didn't have any one with him, did he, Rad?"

"No, Massa Ned. He were all alone by hisse'f."

"Then I guess it's all right, Tom. Andy was only rigging Eradicate,
and he didn't pay any attention to what he said."

"Well, I hope so," and the young inventor wore a thoughtful air as
he resumed the finish of the packing.

The colored man, blissfully unconscious that he had been the
innocent cause of a grave danger that overhung Tom and his friends,
whistled gaily as he gathered the boxes, bales and packages into a
pile, ready for the expressman, who was to call in the morning.

Tom, together with Ned, Mr. Damon and Eradicate, were to leave the
following afternoon, and stay in New York until the sailing of the
steamer. They preferred to be a day or so ahead of time than half an
hour late, and were taking no chances.

"Bless my timetable!" exclaimed Mr. Damon that night, as they sat in
the library of the Swift home, checking over the lists to make sure
that nothing had been forgotten, "bless my timetable, but it doesn't
seem possible that we are going to start at last."

"Yes, we'll soon be on the way to giant land," spoke Tom in a low
voice. Somehow the young inventor did not seem to be in his usually
bright spirits.

"You don't seem very enthusiastic," remarked Ned. "What's the
matter, Tom?"

"Oh, nothing much. Though I would feel better if I knew that Andy
Foger didn't have any inkling of what our plans were," he added, for
Eradicate was not present.

"Oh, nonsense!" exclaimed his chum. "Mr. Preston will be here in the
morning, and he'll know whether his rival has any idea of camping on
our trail. Cheer up!"

"Yes, I suppose I am foolish to worry," admitted Tom, "but, somehow
I can't help it. I wish Mr. Preston was here now to tell us that
Wayland Waydell had gone off to the centre of Africa for a dwarf.
Then I'd know we had nothing to fear. But I guess--"

Tom did not finish his sentence for, at that moment, there came a
peal at the door bell. Instinctively every one started, and Mr.
Damon exclaimed:

"Bless my burglar alarm! What's that?"

"Someone at the door, Tom," replied Mr. Swift calmly. "That's
nothing unusual. It's early yet."

But, in spite of his reassuring words, there was a feeling of vague
alarm.

"I'll see who it is," volunteered Ned. "If it's Andy Foger--"

Mrs. Baggert entered the room at that moment. She had hurried to the
door, and, as she entered she announced:

"Mr. Preston!"

"Yes, it is I!" added the circus man following her quickly into the
room. "I came on to-night instead of waiting for the morning, Tom. I
have bad news for you!"

"Bad news!" gasped the young inventor. "Has Waydell got hold of your
plans."

"I'll wager it has something to do with Andy Foger!" exclaimed Ned.

"Neither one," spoke the circus man. "But I have just had a cable
dispatch from one of my animal agents in Brazil, saying that war has
broken out among the tribes in the central part of South America. A
big native war is being waged all around giant land, as near as we
can figure it out."

"War among the native tribes!" exclaimed Mr. Swift.

"Yes, and one of the worst in years. Of course, Tom, after such
alarming news as this I won't hold you to your promise to go. It's
all off. I'm sorry, but you'd better wait. It won't be safe to go
there now. Better unpack, Tom."

For a moment there was a silence in the room. Then the young
inventor leaped to his feet and faced the circus man.

"Unpack?" cried Tom in ringing tones. "Never! I'm going to giant
land, fight or no fight! Ned, come with me and we'll put in some of
my electric rifles. I wasn't going to take them along, but I will
now. Unpack? I guess not! I'm going to get a giant for you, Mr.
Preston, and save Jake Poddington if he's alive. Come on, Ned."




CHAPTER VII

FIRE ON BOARD


"Your electric rifles!" exclaimed Ned Newton, as he followed his
chum to the storeroom, where Tom kept a number of spare guns. "It's
a good thing you thought of them, Tom."

"Yes, I didn't think we'd need them, for I believe peaceable means
are the best to use on natives. But if there's a war, and we have to
defend ourselves against the tribes, we'll take along something that
will do more damage than an ordinary rifle, and yet I can regulate
it so that it will only stun, and not kill."

"That's the stuff, Tom. No use in being needlessly cruel. How many
will you take?"

"Two or three. We may need 'em all."

A little later the two lads returned to the library where Mr. Damon,
Mr. Swift and the circus man were anxiously awaiting them. Mr.
Preston looked curiously at several objects which Tom and Ned
carried. The objects looked like guns but were different from any
the giant-seeker had seen.

"What are they?" he asked Tom.

"Electric rifles. One of my inventions," and Tom showed how the
weapon worked. Those of you who have read the volume entitled, "Tom
Swift and His Electric Rifle" will remember this curious weapon. It
was worked by a stored charge of magnetism of the wireless kind. By
this a concentrated globule of electricity was projected from the
muzzle, and it could be made strong or weak at the will of the
marksman. It could be made so powerful that it would totally
annihilate a whale, as Tom had once proved, or it could be made so
mild that it would put an enemy, or several of them, to sleep almost
as gently as some narcotic, and they would awaken after several
hours, little the worse for their experience.

A charge of electricity as powerful as five thousand volts could be
concentrated into a small wireless globule the size of a bullet, and
this would fly through space, or even through solid objects until,
reaching the limit of the range set, would strike the object aimed
at. With his wonderful electric rifle Tom had not only killed
elephants, and other big game, but fought off the red pygmies of
Africa.

"And we may have a use for it in South America," he added as he
explained the workings to Mr. Preston.

"Well, I'm glad you didn't back out," commented the circus man, "and
this may come in mighty handy. I'll feel easier about you now, Tom,
when I know you have some electric rifles with you."

The circus man was told of what Eradicate had said to Andy, but he
was of the opinion that no harm would result from it.

"As far as I can learn," went on Mr. Preston, "my old rival Waydell
has given up the giant idea. He is looking for a two-headed
crocodile, said to be somewhere along the Nile river, and he's
fitting out an expedition there I understand. I guess we won't be
bothered with him. But the giant for mine! If I get that sort of an
attraction his two-headed crocodile won't be in it. I hope you have
luck, Tom Swift."

The last details of the expedition were considered. Nothing seemed
to have been left undone, and though carrying the electric rifles
would make a little more baggage, no one minded that.

"I kin carry dem," said Eradicate. "I ain't got much baggage of mah
own."

So it was arranged, and early the next morning the little band of
intrepid travelers, who were going in search of giant land, started
for New York. They little knew what was ahead of them, nor what dire
perils they were to pass through.

Of course Tom had said good-bye to Mary Nestor and half-jokingly, he
had promised to bring back a giant of his own, that she might see
one outside of a circus.

"But, Tom," Mary exclaimed with a laugh, "what will you do with one
of the big creatures if you get one?"

"Have him help me on my newest invention--the noiseless airship,"
answered the young inventor. "I need some one to lift heavy weights.
It will save putting up a derrick. Yes, I think I'll get a giant of
my own."

The last good-byes were said, and the parting between Tom and his
father was affecting.

"I'll soon be back, dad," he said in as cheerful a tone as he could
assume, "and I'll help you finish your gyroscope."

"I hope you will, Tom," and then, with a pressure of his son's hand,
Mr. Swift turned away and went into the house, closing the door
after him.

The first part of the trip to New York was rather a silent one, no
one caring to talk much. Eradicate was the only cheerful member of
the party, which included the circus man, who was going as far as
the steamer with Tom and his friends.

"Say," Ned exclaimed finally, "any one would think we were going to
a funeral!"

"That's right," agreed Tom. "I guess something is on all our nerves.
Let's do something to take it off. Here comes a boy with some funny
papers. We'll buy some and read all the jokes."

This proved a diversion, and before the train had gone many miles
more the giant-hunters were talking and laughing as though they were
merely starting on a short pleasure trip, instead of an expedition
to the dangerous jungles of South America.

They put up at a good hotel in New York, and as soon as they were
established Tom and Mr. Preston went to the steamer Calaban which
was to land them at Buenos Ayres. They found that there was some
confusion about their luggage and boxes, and it took them the better
part of a day to get the tangle straightened out, and their stuff
stored together in one hold.

"It will be easier to get it out if it's all together," said Tom, at
the conclusion of their labors, and then he and the circus man
returned to the hotel. The ship was to sail two days later, and,
several hours before the time set for the departure, Tom and his
friends were on board.

"You don't see anything of your rival circus friend, do you?" asked
Tom, of the man who wanted a giant.

"Not a sign," was the answer, as Mr. Preston glanced over the throng
of on-coming passengers. "I guess we've either given him the slip,
or he's given up the game. You won't have to worry about him. Just
take it easy until you start for the interior, and from then on
you'll have hard work enough."

The last of the cargo was being taken aboard, the late passengers
had arrived and were anxiously watching to see that their baggage
was not lost. As Mr. Preston stood talking with Tom near the
gangplank, a clerical looking gentleman approached the circus man.

"I beg your pardon," he began in mild accents, "but could you tell
me where my stateroom is?" and he showed his ticket. "I'm not used
to traveling," he needlessly added for that fact was very evident.
Mr. Preston informed him how to get to his berth, and the gentleman
went on: "Are you going all the way to Buenos Ayres?"

"No, but my friend is," and the circus man nodded at Tom.

"Oh, I'm so glad!" the stranger exclaimed. "Then I shall have
someone of whom I can ask questions. I am quite lost when I travel."

"I'll help you all I can," volunteered Tom, "and I'll show you to
your stateroom now."

"Ah, thank you. Your name is--"

"Tom Swift," supplied the young inventor.

"Ah, yes, I believe I have read about your airships. I am the
Reverend Josiah Blinderpool. I am taking a little vacation. I trust
we shall become good friends."

"Humph, he's a regular infant, to be away from civilization," mused
Tom, when he had showed the clergyman to the proper stateroom.
"He'll get into trouble, he's so innocent."  If he could have seen
that same "clergyman" double up with mirth when he had closed his
stateroom door after him, Tom would not have felt so sure about that
same "innocence."

"To think that I was talking face to face with Sam Preston and he
never tumbled to who I was!" exclaimed the newcomer softly. "That's
rich! Now if I play my cards right I shouldn't be surprised but what
they'd invite me to come along with them. That would just suit me. I
wouldn't have any trouble then, getting on the track of those
giants. The information Waydell got from that red-haired Foger chap
wasn't any too definite," and once more the man wearing the garb of
a minister chuckled.

"Well, I'll say good-bye," remarked Mr. Preston, a little later,
when the warning bell had rung. "I guess you'll get along all right.
I haven't seen a sign of Waydell, or any of his slick agents. You'll
have no trouble I guess."

But if the circus man could have seen the "clergyman" at that same
time looking over letters addressed to "Hank Delby," and signed
"Wayland Waydell" he would not have been so confident.

Mr. Preston bade good-bye to his friends, the gangplank was hauled
up, and a hoarse blast came from the whistle of the Calaban.

"Bless my pocketbook!" cried Mr. Damon. "We're off!"

"Yep, off t' git dat big, giant orchard plant," chimed in Eradicate.

"Hush!" exclaimed Tom, who did not like the use of the word "giant"
even in that connection. "Don't tell everyone our business, Rad."

"Dat's right, Massa Tom. I clean done forgot dat it's a sort of
secret. I'll keep mighty still 'bout it."

The Calaban swung out into the river and began steaming down the
bay.

The first week of the voyage was uneventful. The weather was
exceptionally fine, and hardly any one was seasick. The Reverend Mr.
Blinderpool was often on deck, and he made it a point to cultivate
the acquaintance of Tom and his friends. In spite of the fact that
he said he had traveled very little, he seemed to know much about
hidden corners of the world, but always, as on an occasion when he
had accidentally let slip some remark that showed he had been in
far-off China or Asia, he would suddenly change the conversation
when it verged to travel.

"There's something queer about that minister," said Ned after one of
these occasions, "but I can't decide what it is."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Tom, who rather liked the man.

"No nonsense about it. Why should a minister take a trip like this
when he isn't sick, and when he isn't going to establish a mission
in South America? There's something queer about it, for, by his own
words he just took this voyage as a whim."

"Oh, you're too fussy," declared Tom; and for the time the subject
was dropped.

They ran into a storm when about ten days out, and for a while they
had a rough time of it, and then the weather cleared again.

It was one evening, after the formal dinner, when Tom and Ned were
strolling about on deck, before turning in, that, the quiet of the
ship was broken by what is always an alarming cry at sea.

"Fire! Fire!" shouted a man, pointing to a thin wisp of smoke
curling up from the deck amidships.

"Keep quiet!" yelled one of the stewards. "It is nothing!"

"It's a fire, I tell you!" insisted the man, and several others took
up the cry.

A panic was imminent, and the captain came running from his
quarters.

"What is it?" he asked.

An officer hurried to his side, and said something but in such a low
voice that Tom, who was standing close beside the two, scarcely
heard it. But he did hear this:

"There's a fire, sir, in hold number seventeen. We have turned the
hose in there, and the pumps are working."

"Very good, Mr. Meld. Now try and quiet the passengers. Tell them it
doesn't amount to much, and if it does we can flood that
compartment."

Tom started at that.

"Come on, Ned!" he cried, grabbing his chum by the arm.

"Why, what's up? What's the matter?"

"Matter? Matter enough! The fire is in the hold where all our stuff
is stored, and if the flames reach that box I packed last--well, I
wouldn't give much for the ship!" and fairly dragging his chum
along, Tom raced for the place where the smoke was now coming up in
thicker clouds.




CHAPTER VIII

A NARROW ESCAPE


"Here, come back! You can't go past here!"

"But I've got to go! I tell you I must go! It's important!"

The first speaker was one of the ship's officers, and the other was
Tom Swift, who, accompanied by his chum, was trying to get past a
rope that had been hastily stretched in front of the hold where the
smoke was rolling up in ever-thickening clouds.

"It's important that you stay where you are," insisted the officer.
"Look here young man, do you want to start a panic? You know what
that is on board ship. Keep cool, we'll get the fire out all right."

"I am cool," responded Tom, and, though he did look a bit excited,
he was calm enough to know what he was doing.

"Then keep back!" insisted the officer.

A crowd was gathering and there were ominous whispers sent back and
forth. Some hysterical women were beginning to scream, and there
were anxious looks on all faces.

"I tell you it's important that I go down there," insisted Tom. "I
want to get a box--"

"We'll look after the baggage of the passengers," declared the
officer. "You don't need to worry, young man."

"But I tell you I do!" and Tom's voice was loud now. "It isn't so
much on my account, as--" and then, stepping quickly to the side of
the officer he whispered something.

"What!" cried the officer. "You don't tell me? That was a risk! I
guess I'll have to help you get it out. Here, Mr. Simm," he called
to one of the mates, "stand guard here. I'm going down into the hold
with this young man."

"Shall I come?" cried Ned.

"No, you go stay with Mr. Damon and Eradicate," answered Tom. "Tell
them everything is all right. And for cats' sake keep Rad cool.
Don't let him get excited and start a panic. I'll be back in a
minute."

With that Tom and the officer disappeared from view, and Ned, after
wondering what it was all about, hastened to reassure Mr. Damon and
the colored man that there was no danger, though from the manner in
which Tom had acted his chum was convinced that something was wrong.

Meanwhile our hero, accompanied by the officer, was groping his way
through the thick smoke in the compartment. The officer had switched
on the electric lights, and they shone with a yellow haze through
the clouds of choking vapor.

"Can you see it?" asked the officer anxiously.

"I had it put where I could easily get at it," answered Tom with a
cough, for some of the smoke had got down his throat. "I had an idea
I might need it in a hurry. Here it is!" and he pointed to a large
box, marked with his initials in red paint. "Give me a hand and
we'll get it out."

"Yes, and send it on deck. See, there's the fire!" and the officer
pointed to where a glow could be seen amid some bales of cotton. "It
will be slow burning, that's one good thing, and by turning steam
into this compartment we can soon put it out."

"It's pretty close to my box," commented Tom, "but there isn't as
much danger as I thought."

It did not take him and the officer long to move the box away from
its proximity to the fire, for the case was not heavy, though it was
of good size, and then the officer having called up an order to some
of his fellow seamen on deck, a rope was let down, and the box
hoisted up.

"Whew! That was a narrow escape!" exclaimed Tom as he saw his case
go up on deck. "I suppose I shouldn't have had that stored here. But
there were so many things to think of that I forgot."

"Yes, it was a risk," commented the officer. "But what are you going
to do with that sort of stuff, anyhow?"

"I may need it when we get among the wild tribes of South American
Indians," answered Tom non-commitally. "I'm much obliged for your
help."

"Oh, that's nothing. Anything to save the ship."

At that moment there were confused cries, and a series of shouts and
commands up on deck.

"We'd better hurry out of here," said the officer.

"Why?"

"The captain has just ordered steam turned in here. I hope there
isn't anything of yours that will be damaged by it."

"No, everything else is in waterproof coverings. Come on, we'll
climb out."

They hurried from the compartment and, a little later clouds of
quenching steam were poured in from a hose run from the boiler room.
The hatch was battened down, and then the smoke ceased to come up.

"The danger is practically over," the captain assured the frightened
passengers. "The fire will be all out by morning. You may go to your
staterooms in perfect safety."

Some did, and others, disbelieving, hung around the hatch-cover,
sniffing and peering to discover traces of smoke. But the sailors
had done their work well, and a stranger would not have known that a
fire was in the hold.

The captain had spoken truly, and in the morning the fire was
completely out, a few charred bales of cotton being the only things
damaged. They were hauled up and dumped into the sea, while Tom,
making a hasty inspection of his other goods placed in that
compartment saw, to his relief, that beyond one case of trinkets,
designed for barter with the natives, nothing had been damaged, and
even the trinkets could be used on a pinch.

"But what was in that box?" asked Ned, that night as they got ready
to retire, the excitement having calmed down.

"Hush! Not so loud," cautioned Tom, for Mr. Damon was in the next
stateroom, while Eradicate had one across the corridor. "I'll tell
you, Ned, but don't breathe a word of it to Rad or Mr. Damon. They
might not intend to give it away, but I'm afraid they would, if they
knew, and I depend on the things in that box to give the native
giants the surprise of their lives in case we--well, in case we come
to close quarters."

"Close quarters?"

"Yes, have a fight, you know, or in case they get so fond of us that
they won't hear of letting us go--in other words if they make us
captives."

"Great Scott, Tom! You don't think they'll do that, do you?"

"No telling, but if they do, Ned, I've got some things in that box
that will make them wish they hadn't. It's got--" and Tom leaned
forward and whispered, as though he feared even the walls would
hear.

"Good!" cried his chum! "That's the stuff! No wonder you thought the
ship might be damaged if the fire got to that!"

It seemed that the slight fire was about all the excitement destined
to take place aboard the Calaban, for, after the blaze was so
effectually quenched, the ship slipped along through the calm seas,
and it was actually an effort to kill time on the part of the
passengers. As they progressed further south the weather became more
and more warm, until, as they approached the equator, every one put
on the lightest garments obtainable.

"Crossing the line," was the signal for the usual "stunts" among the
sailors. "Neptune" came aboard, with his usual sea-green whiskers
made from long rope ends, and with his trident much in evidence; and
there was plenty of horseplay which the passengers very much
enjoyed.

Then, as the tropical region was left behind, the weather became
more bearable. There were one or two storms, but they were of no
consequence and the steamer weathered them easily.

Tom and his friends had several talks with the "Reverend Josiah
Blinderpool," as the pretended clergyman still called himself. But
he did not obtrude his company on them, and though he asked many
questions as to where Tom and his party were going, the young
inventor, with his usual caution in talking to strangers, rather
evaded them.

"Hang it all! He's as close-mouthed as a clam," complained "Mr.
Blinderpool" to himself one day, after an attempt to worm something
from Tom, "I'll just have to stick close to him and his chum to get
a line on where they're heading for. And I must find out, or Waydell
will think I'm throwing the game."

As for Tom and the others, they gave the seeming clergyman little
thought--that is until one day when something happened. Ned had been
down in the engine room, having had permission to inspect the
wonderful machinery, and, on his way back he passed the smoking
cabin. He was rather surprised to see Mr. Blinderpool in there,
puffing on a big black cigar, and with him were some men whom Ned
recognized as personages who had vainly endeavored to get a number
of passengers into a card game with them. And, unless Ned's eyes
deceived him, the seeming clergyman was about to indulge in a game
himself.

"That's mighty queer," mused Ned. "Guess I'll tell Tom about this. I
never saw a minister play cards in public before, and this Mr.
Blinderpool has been trying to get thick with Tom, of late. Maybe
he's a gambler in disguise."

Filled with this thought Ned hastened off to warn his chum.




CHAPTER IX

"FORWARD MARCH!"


"You don't say so!" exclaimed the young inventor, when Ned had told
him the queer news. "Well, do you know I've been suspicious of that
fellow ever since he tried to make friends with us."

"Suspicious? How so? You don't think--"

"Oh, I mean I think he's some kind of a confidence man who has
adopted the respectable clothes of a minister to fool people. He may
be a card sharper himself. Well, we won't have anything more to do
with him. It won't be long before we arrive at Buenos Ayres, and
then we won't be bothered with card sharpers or anybody else but--"

"Giants and fighting natives," finished Ned, with a laugh. "You
forget, Tom, that there's a war going on near the very place we're
headed for."

"That's so, Ned. But with what we have with us I guess we can make
out all right. I'm going to have the electric rifles handy the
minute we start for the interior."

The voyage continued, and was fast drawing to a close. "Mr.
Blinderpool" made several more attempts to strike up a friendship
with Tom, or his chum, but they were on their guard now, and,
failing to get into much of a conversation with the two young men,
the pretended clergyman turned his attentions to Mr. Damon.

That eccentric gentleman welcomed him at first, until a quiet hint
from Tom brought that to an end.

"Bless my fire shovel!" cried Mr. Damon. "You don't say so! Not a
clergyman at all? Dear me!"

And then, getting desperate, and needing very much to learn how long
a journey his rivals were to undertake, so that he, too, might
prepare for it, Mr. Hank Delby, alias Blinderpool, began to "pump"
Eradicate.

But the latter was too sharp for him. Well knowing that a white man
would not get suddenly friendly with one of the black race unless
for some selfish object, Eradicate fairly snubbed the seeming
minister, until that worthy had to go off by himself, saying bitter
things and casting black looks at our friends.

"But I'll get ahead of them yet!" he muttered, "and I'll get their
giants away from them, if they capture any."

The box on which Tom set such an importance, and which had so nearly
been the cause of a disaster, had been stored in one of the fire-proof
compartments of the ship, and now, as a few days more would see
the vessel entering the harbor of the Rio de la Plata, thence to
steam up to the ancient city of Buenos Ayres, Tom and the others
began to think of what lay before them.

"How do you propose to head into the interior?" asked Mr. Damon one
afternoon, when the captain announced that the following morning
would see them nearly opposite Montevideo.

"I'm going to hire a lot of burrows, donkeys or whatever they have
down here that answers the purpose," replied Tom. "We have a lot of
things to transport, and I guess pack mules would be the best, if we
can get them. Then I've got to hire some drivers and some porters,
camp-makers and the like. In fact we'll have quite a party. I guess
I'll need ten natives, and a head man and with ourselves we'll be
fifteen. So we'll need plenty of food. But then we can get that as
we go along, except when we get away into the interior, and then
we'll have to hunt it ourselves."

"That's the stuff!" cried Ned. "We haven't had a good hunting
expedition since we went to elephant land, Tom. The electric rifles
will come in handy here."

"Yes, I expect they will. Now come on, Ned, and help me get a list
ready of the things we've got to take with us, and how they can best
be divided up."

Thick weather delayed the ship somewhat, so it was not until evening
of the next day that they made Montevideo, where part of the cargo
was to be discharged. As they would lay over there a day, the boys
decided to go ashore, which they did, wondering at the strange
sights in the old city.

Tom watched to see if the pretended minister would land, and
endeavor to force his acquaintance, but Mr. Hank Delby, to give him
his right name, was not in evidence. In fact he was turning over
scheme after scheme in his mind in order to hit on one that would
enable him to take advantage of the preparations which had been made
by his rival in the circus business.

"I've just got to get a line on where those giants are to be found,"
mused Mr. Delby, in the seclusion of his stateroom, "even if I have
to take some other disguise and follow that Swift crowd. That's what
I'll do. I'll put on some other disguise! I wonder what it had
better be?"

Tom and Ned, to say nothing of Mr. Damon and Eradicate, found much
to interest them in the capital of Uruguay, and they were rather
sorry, in a way, when it was time for them to leave.

"But we'll see plenty more strange sights," remarked Tom, as the
steamer started off for Buenos Ayres. "In fact our trip hasn't
really begun yet."

In due time they dropped anchor at the ancient city, and then began
a series of confused and busy times. In fact there was so much to
do, seeing to the unloading of their stuff, arranging for hotel
accommodations, seeing to hiring natives for the expedition into the
interior, and other details, that Tom and his friends had no time to
think anything about the pretended clergyman who had caused them a
little worry.

Eventually their belongings were stored in a safe place, and our
friends sat down to a good dinner in a hotel that, while it was in
far-off South America, yet was as good as many in New York, and, in
some respects the boys, and Mr. Damon, liked it better.

They found that the Spanish and Portuguese languages were the
principal ones spoken, together with a mixture of the native
tongues, and as both Ned and Tom, as well as Mr. Damon, had a
working knowledge of Spanish they got along fairly well. Some of the
hotel people could speak English.

Tom made inquiries and found that the best plan would be to
transport all his stuff by the regular route to Rosario, on the
Parana river in Argentina, and there he could make up his pack
train, hire native carriers, and start for the interior.

"Then we'll do that," he decided, "and take it easy until we get to
Rosario."

It took them the better part of a week to do this, but at last they
were on the ground, and felt for the first time that they were
really going into a wild and little explored country.

"Are you going to stick to the Parana river?" asked Ned.

"No," replied Tom, in the seclusion of their room, "if there are any
giants they will be found in some undiscovered, or at least little
traveled, part of the country. I don't believe they are in the
vicinity of the big rivers, or other travelers would have heard
about them, and, as far as we know, Mr. Preston's animal agent is
the only one who ever got a trace of them. We'll have to go into the
jungle on either side of the river."

"Bless my walking stick!" cried Mr. Damon. "Have we really to go
into the jungle, Tom?"

"I'm afraid we have, if we want to get any giants, and get a trace
of Mr. Poddington."

"All right, I'm game, but I do hope we won't run into a band of
fighting natives."

In Rosario it was learned that while the "war" was not regarded
seriously from the fact that the fighting tribes were far inland,
still it was going on with vigor, and large bands of natives were
roaming about, stealing each others' cattle and horses, burning
villages, and taking captives.

"I guess we're in for it," remarked Tom grimly. "But I'm not going
to back out now."

Unexpected complications, difficulties in the way of getting the
right kind of help, and a competent man to take charge of the native
drivers, so delayed our friends that it was nearly two weeks after
their arrival in Rosario before they could start for the interior.

Of course the object of the expedition was kept a secret, and Tom
let it be known that he and his friends were merely exploring, and
wanted rare plants, orchids, or anything in that line. The natives
were not very curious.

At last the day for the start came. The mules, which had been hired
as beasts of burdens, were loaded with boxes or bales on either
side, the natives were marshalled into line. Tom, Ned, and Mr.
Damon, each equipped with a rifle had a saddle animal to ride, and
Eradicate was similarly equipped, though for a weapon he depended on
a shotgun, which he said he understood better than the electric
rifles.

The aeroplane, divided into many small packages, the goods for
barter, their supplies, stores, ammunition, and the box of which Tom
took such care--all these were on the backs of the beasts of burden.
Some food was taken along, but for a time, at least, they could
depend on scattered towns or villages, or the forest game, for their
eating.

"Are we all ready?" called Tom, looking at the rather imposing
cavalcade of which he was the head.

"I guess so," replied Ned. "Let her go!"

"Bless my liver pad!" gasped Mr. Damon. "If we've got to start do
it, and let's get it over with Tom."

"All ready, Rad?" asked the colored man's young master.

"All ready, Massa Tom. But I mus' say dat I'd radder hab Boomerang
dan dish yeah animal what I'm ridin'."

"Oh, you'll do all right, Rad. Then, if we're all ready, forward
march!" cried Tom, and with calls to their animals, the drivers
started them off.

Hardly had they begun the advance than Ned, who had been narrowly
watching one of the natives, hurried up to Tom, and rapidly
whispered something to his chum.

"What?" cried Tom. "Armed with a six-shooter, is he? Well, we'll see
about that! Halt!" he cried in Spanish, and then he called San Pedro
the head mule driver, to him.




CHAPTER X

A WILD HORSE STAMPEDE


"Who is that man?" demanded Tom pointing to the one Ned had
indicated. Tom's chum had had a glimpse of a shining revolver in the
hip pocket of one of the mule drivers, and knowing that the simple
natives were not in the habit of carrying such weapons, the lad had
communicated his suspicions to Tom.

"What man, senor?" asked the head mule driver.

"That one!" and the young inventor again pointed toward him. And,
now that Tom looked a second time he saw that the man was not as
black as the other drivers--not an honest, dark-skinned black but
more of a sickly yellow, like a treacherous half-breed. "Who is he?"
asked Tom, for the man in question was just then tightening a girth
and could not hear him.

"I know not, senor. He come to me when I am hiring the others, and
he say he is a good driver. And so he is, I test him before I engage
him," went in San Pedro in Spanish. "He is one good driver."

"Why does he carry a revolver?"

"A revolver, senor? Santa Maria, I know not! I--"

"I'll find out," declared Tom determinedly. "Here," he called to the
offending one, who straightened up quickly. "Come here!"

The man came, with all the cringing servility of a born native, and
bowed low.

"Why have you a weapon?" asked the young inventor. "I gave orders
that none of the drivers were to carry them."

"A revolver, senor? I have none! I--"

"Rad, reach in his pocket!" cried Tom, and the colored man did so
with a promptness that the other could not frustrate. Eradicate held
aloft a large calibre, automatic weapon.

"What's that for?" asked Tom, virtuously angry.

"I--er--I--" and then, with a hopeless shrug of his shoulders the
man turned away.

"Give him his gun, and get another driver, San Pedro," directed our
hero, and with another shrug of his shoulders the man accepted the
revolver, and walked slowly off. Another driver was not hard to
engage, as several had been hanging about, hoping for employment at
the last minute, and one was quickly chosen.

"It's lucky you saw that gun, Ned," remarked Tom, when they were
actually under way again.

"Yes, I saw the sun shining on it as his coat flapped up. What was
his game, do you suppose?"

"Oh, he might be what they call a 'bad half-breed' down here. I
guess maybe he thought he could lord it over the other drivers when
we got out in the jungle, and maybe take some of their wages away
from them, or have things easier for himself."

"Bless my wishbone!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "You don't think he meant
to use it on us, Tom?"

"Why no? What makes you ask that?"

"Oh, I'm just nervous, I guess," replied the odd man.

But if Mr. Damon could have seen that same half-breed a little
later, as he slipped into a Rosario resort, with the yellow stain
washed from his face, the nervousness of the eccentric gentleman
would have increased. For the man who had been detected with the
revolver muttered to himself:

"Caught! Well, I'll fool 'em next time all right! I thought I could
get away with the pack train, and then it would have been easy to
turn the natives any way I wished, after I had found what I'm
looking for. But I had to go and carry that gun! I never thought
they'd spot it. Well, it's all up now, and if Waydell heard of it
he'd want to fire me. But I'll make good yet. I'll have to adopt
some other disguise, and see if I can't tag along behind."

All unconscious of the plotter they had left back of them, Tom and
his companions pushed on, rapidly leaving such signs of civilization
as were represented by small native towns and villages, and coming
nearer to the jungles and forests that lay between them and the
place where Tom was destined to be made a captive.

They were far enough away from the tropics to escape the intolerable
heat, and yet it was quite warm. In fact the weather was not at all
unpleasant, and, once they were started, all enjoyed the novelty of
the trip.

Tom planned to keep along the eastern shore of the Parana river,
until they reached the junction where the Salado joins it. Then he
decided that they would do better to cross the Parana and strike
into the big triangle made by that stream and its principal
tributary, heading north toward Bolivia.

"For it is in that little-explored part of South America that I
think the giants will be found." said Tom, as he talked it over with
Ned and Mr. Damon in the privacy of their tent, which had been set
up.

"But why should there be giants there any more than anywhere else?"
asked Ned.

"No particular reason," answered his chum. "But, according to the
last word Mr. Preston had from his agent, that was where he was
heading for, and that's where Zacatas, his native helper, said he
lost track of his master. I have a theory that the giants, if we
find any, will turn out to be a branch of a Patagonian tribe."

"Patagonians!" exclaimed Ned.

"Yes. You know the natives of the Southern part of Argentina grow to
a considerable size. Now Patagonia is a comparatively bleak and cold
country. What would prevent some of that big tribe centuries ago,
from having migrated to a warmer country, where life was more
favorable? After several generations they may have grown to be
giants."

"Bravo!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "It's a good theory, at any rate, Tom.
Though whether you can ever prove it is a question."

"Yes, and a big one," agreed the young inventor with a laugh.

For some days they traveled along over a comparatively flat country,
bordering the river. At times they would pass through small native
villages, where they would be able to get fresh meat, poultry and
other things that varied their bill of fare. Again there would be
long, lonely stretches of forest or jungle, through which it was
difficult to make their way. And, occasionally they would come to
fair-sized towns where their stay was made pleasant.

"I doan't see any ob dem oranges an' bananas droppin' inter mah
mouf, Massa Tom," complained Eradicate one day, after they had been
on the march for over a week.

"Have patience, Rad," advised Tom. "We'll come to them when we get a
little farther into the interior. First we'll come to the monkeys,
and the cocoanut trees."

"Hones' Massa Tom?"

"Surely."

And though it was pretty far south for the nimble simians, the next
day they did come upon a drove of them skipping about in the tall
palm trees.

"There they are, Rad! There they are!" cried Ned, as the chattering
of the monkeys filled the forest.

"By golly! So dey be! Heah's where I get some cocoanuts!"

Before anyone could stop him, Eradicate caught up a dead branch, and
threw it at a monkey. The chattering increased, and almost instantly
a shower of cocoanuts came crashing down, narrowly missing some of
our friends.

"Hold on, Rad! Hold on!" cried Tom. "Some of us will be hurt!"

Crack! came a cocoanut down on the skull of the colored man.

"Bless my court plaster! Someone's hurt now!" cried Mr. Damon.

"Hurt? Bless yo' heart, Massa Damon, it takes mo' dan dat t' hurt
dish yeah chile!" cried Eradicate with a grin. "Ah got a hard head,
Ah has, mighty hard head, an' de cocoanut ain't growed dat kin bust
it. Thanks, Mistah Monkey, thanks!" and with a laugh Eradicate
jumped off his mule, and began gathering up the nuts, while the
monkeys fled into the forest.

"Very much good to drink milk," said San Pedro, as he picked up a
half-ripe nut, and showed how to chop off the top with a big knife
and drain the slightly acid juice inside. "Very much good for
thirst."

"Let's try it," proposed Tom, and they all drank their fill, for
there were many cocoanuts, though it was rather an isolated grove of
them.

The monkeys became more numerous as they proceeded farther north
toward the equator, for it must be remembered that they had landed
south of it, and at times the little animals became a positive
nuisance.

Several days passed, and they crossed the Parana river and struck
into the almost unpenetrated tract of land where Tom hoped to find
the giants. As yet none of their escort dreamed of the object of the
expedition, and though Tom had caused scouts to be sent back over
their trail to learn if they were being followed there was no trace
of any one.

One day, after a night camp on the edge of a rather high table land,
they started across a fertile plain that was covered with a rich
growth of grass.

"Good grazing ground here," commented Ned.

"Yes," put in San Pedro. "Plenty much horse here pretty soon."

"Do the natives graze their herds of horses here?" asked Tom.

"No natives--wild horses," explained Pedro. "Plenty much, sometimes
too many they come. You see, maybe."

It was nearly noon, and Tom was considering stopping for dinner if
they could come to a good watering place, when Ned, who had ridden
slightly in advance, came galloping back as fast as his steed would
carry him.

"Look out! Look out!" he cried. "There's a stampede of 'em, and
they're headed right this way!"

"Stampede of what? Who's headed this way?" cried Tom. "A lot of
monkeys?"

"No, wild horses! Thousands of 'em! Hear 'em coming?"

In the silence that followed Ned's warning there could be heard a
dull, roaring, thundering sound, and the earth seemed to tremble.

"The young senor speaks truth! Wild horses are coming!" cried San
Pedro. "Get ready, senors! Have your weapons at hand, and perchance
we can turn the stampede aside."

"The rifles! The electric rifles, Ned--Mr. Damon! We've got to stop
them, or they'll trample us to death!" cried Tom.

As he spoke the thundering became louder, and then, looking across
the grassy plain, all saw a large troop of wild horses, with flying
manes and tails, headed directly toward them!




CHAPTER XI

CAUGHT IN A LIVING ROPE


"Quick! Peg out the mules!" cried San Pedro, after one look at the
onrushing horses. "Drive the stakes well down! Tie them fast and
then get behind those rocks! Lively!"

He cried his orders to the natives in Spanish, at the same time
motioning to Tom and Ned.

"Get off your mules!" he went on. "Peg them out. Peg out the others,
and then run for it!"

"Run for it?" repeated Tom, "Do you think I'm going to leave my
outfit in the midst of that stampede?" and he waved his hand toward
the thundering, galloping wild horses which were coming nearer every
moment. "Get out the electric rifles, and we'll turn that stampede.
I'm not going to run."

"Bless my saddle!" cried Mr. Damon. "This is awful! There must be a
thousand of them."

"Nearer two!" cried Ned, who was struggling to loosen the straps
that bound his electric rifle to the side of his mule. Already the
pack animals as well as those ridden by the members of the giant-hunting
party were showing signs of excitement. They seemed to want to join
the stampeding horses.

"Peg our animals out! Peg them out! Make them so they can't join the
others!" yelled San Pedro. "It's our only chance!"

"I believe he's right!" cried Mr. Damon. "Tom, if we wait until
those maddened brutes are up to us they'll fairly sweep ours along
with them, and there's no telling where we'll end up. I think we'd
better follow his advice and tie our mules as strongly as we can.
Then we can go over there by the rocks, and fire at the wild horses.
We may be able to turn them aside."

"Guess that's right," agreed the young inventor after a moment's
thought. "Come on, Ned. Peg out!"

"Peg out! Peg out!" yelled the natives, and then began a lively
scene. Pegging stakes were in readiness, and, attached to the bridle
of each mule was a strong, rawhide rope for tying to the stake. The
pegs were driven deeply into the ground and in a trice the animals
were made fast to them, though they snorted, and tried to pull away
as they heard the neighing of the stampeding animals and saw them
coming on with an irresistible rush.

"Hurry!" begged San Pedro, and hurry Tom, Ned and the others did.
Animal after animal was made fast--that is all but one and that bore
on its back two rather large but light boxes--the contents of the
case which Tom had rescued from the fire in the hold.

"What are you going to do with that mule?" asked Ned, as he saw Tom begin
to lead the animal away, the others having been pegged out.

"I'm going to take him over to the rocks with me. I'm not going to
take any chances on this mule getting away with those things in the
boxes. Give me a hand here, and then we'll see what the electric
rifles will do against those horses."

But the one mule which Tom had elected to take with him seemed to
resent being separated from his companions. Bracing his feet well
apart, the animal stubbornly refused to move.

"Come on!" yelled Tom, pulling on the leading rope.

"Bless my porous plaster!" cried Mr. Damon. "You'd better hurry,
Tom! Those wild horses are almost on us!"

"I'm trying to hurry!" replied the young inventor, "but this mule
won't come. Ned, get behind and shove, will you?"

"Not much! I don't want to be kicked."

"Beat him! Strike him! Wait until I get a club!" yelled San Pedro.
"Come, Antonia, Selka, Balaka!" he cried, to several of the natives
who had already started for the sheltering rocks a short distance
away. "Beat the mule for Senor Swift!"

Ned joined Tom at the leading rope, and the two lads tried to pull
the animal along. Mr. Damon rushed over to lend his aid, and San
Pedro, catching up a long stick, was about to bring it down on the
mule's back. Meanwhile the stampeding animals were rushing nearer.

"Hold on dere, Massa Tom!" suddenly called Eradicate. "Yo'-all done
flustered dat mule, dat's what yo' done. Yo'-all am too much excited
'bout him. Be calm! Be calm!"

"Calm! With that bunch of wild animals bearing down on us?" shouted
Tom. "Let's see you be calm, Rad. Come on here, you obstinate
brute!" he cried, straining on the rope.

"Let me do it, Massa Tom. Let me do it," suggested the colored man
hurrying to the balky beast.

Then, as gently as if he was talking to a nervous child, and totally
oblivious to the danger of the approaching horses, Eradicate went up
to the mule's head, rubbed its ears until they pointed naturally
once more, murmured something to it, and then, taking the rope from
Ned and Tom, Eradicate led the mule along toward the rocks as easily
as if there had never been any question about going there.

"For the love of tripe! How did you do it?" asked Tom.

"Bless my peck of oats!" gasped Mr. Damon. "It's a good thing we had
Rad along!"

"All mules am alike," said the colored man with a grin. "An dish
yeah one ain't much different from mah Boomerang. I guess he's a
sorter cousin."

"Come on!" yelled San Pedro. "No time to lose. Make for the rocks!"

Tom, Ned and Mr. Damon sprinted then, and there was need to, for the
foremost of the galloping horses was not a hundred feet away. Then
came Eradicate, leading the mule that had at last consented to
hurry. The natives, with San Pedro, were already at the rocks,
waiting for the white hunters with the deadly electric rifles.

"If they stampede our mules we'll be in a pickle!" murmured Ned.

"I guess those ropes will hold unless they bite them through,"
remarked Tom.

"Yes, they sure hold," cried San Pedro, and indeed one had to shout
now to be heard above the thundering of the horses. Now the tethered
mules were lost to sight in the multitude of the other steeds all
about them.

"Come on, Ned!" yelled Tom, as he sighted his rifle. "Pump it into
them! We must turn them, or they may come over this way, and if they
do it will be all up with us."

"Shoot to kill?" asked Ned, as he drew back the firing lever of his
electric rifle.

"No, only a stunning charge. Those horses are valuable, and there's
no use killing them. All we want to do is to turn them aside."

"That's right," agreed Mr. Damon, forgetting in the excitement of
the moment to bless himself or anything. "We'll only stun them."

The rifles were quickly adjusted to send out a comparatively weak
charge of electricity, and then they were trained on the dense mass
of horses, while the three marksmen began working the firing levers.

At first, though horse after horse fell to the ground, stunned,
there was no appreciable effect on the thousands in the drove. The
poor mules were hidden from sight, though by reason of divisions in
the living stream of animals it could still be told where they were
tethered, and where the horses separated to go past them.
Fortunately the ropes and pegs held.

"Fire faster!" cried Tom. "Shoot across the front of them, and try
to turn them to one side."

From the rocks, behind which the natives and our friends crouched,
there came a steady stream of electric fire. Horse after horse went
down, stunned but not badly hurt, and in a few hours the beasts
would feel no ill effects. The firing was redoubled, and then there
came a break in the steady stream of horseflesh.

Some hesitated and sought to turn back. Others, behind, pressed them
on, and then, as if in fear at the unknown and unseen power that was
laying low animal after animal, the great body, of horses, suddenly
turned at right angles to their course and broke away. There were
now two bodies of the wild runaways, those that had passed the
tethered mules, and those that had swung off. The stampede had been
broken.

"That's the stuff!" cried Tom, jumping up from behind the rocks, and
swinging his hat. "We've turned them."

"And just in time, too," added Ned, as he joined his chum. Then all
the others leaped up, and the sight of the human beings completed
the scare. The stampeding animals swung off more than before, so
that they were nearly doubling back on their own trail. The others
thundered off, and the ground was strewn with unconscious though
unharmed animals.

"One mule gone!" cried San Pedro, hastily counting the still
tethered animals which were wildly tugging at their ropes.

"Never mind," spoke Tom, "it's the one with some of that damaged
bartering stuff I intended for trading. We can afford to lose that.
Rad, is your animal all right?"

"He suah am, Massa Tom. Dish yeah mule am almost as sensible as
Boomerang, ain't yo'?" and Eradicate patted the big animal he was
leading.

"I'll send a man down the trail, and maybe he can pick up the
missing one," said San Pedro, and while the other natives were
quieting the restless mules, one tall black man hastened in the wake
of the retreating horses.

He came back in an hour with the missing animal, that had broken its
tether rope and then, after running along with the wild horses had
evidently dropped out of the drove. Aside from the loss of a small
box, there had been no damage done, and the cavalcade was soon under
way once more, leaving the motionless horses to recover from the
effects of the electricity.

"Bless my saddle pad!" cried Mr. Damon. "I don't think I want to go
through anything like that again."

"Neither do I," agreed Tom. "We are well out of it."

"How much you take for one of them rifles?" asked San Pedro
admiringly.

"Not for sale," answered Tom with a laugh.

They camped in a fertile valley that night, and had a much-needed
rest. As yet Tom had made no inquiries as to the location of giant
land from any of the natives of the villages or towns through which
they passed. He knew as soon as he did begin asking questions, his
own men would hear of it, and they might be frightened if they knew
they were in an expedition the object of which was to capture some
of the tall men.

"We'll just go along for a few days more," said Tom, to Ned, "and
then, when I do spring my surprise, they'll be so far from home that
they won't dare turn back. In a few days I'll begin making
inquiries."

They traveled on for three days more, ever heading north, and coming
more into the warmer climate. The vegetation began to take on a more
tropical look, and finally they reached a region infested with many
wild beasts and monkeys, and with patches of dense jungle on either
side of the narrow trail. Fruits, tropical flowers and birds
abounded.

"I think we're getting there," remarked Tom, on the evening of the
third day after his talk with Ned. "San Pedro says there's quite a
village about half a day's march ahead, and I may learn something
there. I'll know by to-morrow whether we are on the right trail or
not."

The natives were getting supper, and Eradicate was busy with a meal
for the three white hunters. Mr. Damon had strolled down to the bank
of a little stream, and was looking at some small animals like foxes
that had come for their evening drink. They seemed quite fearless.

Suddenly something long, round and thick seemed to drop down out of
a tree close to the odd gentleman. So swift and noiseless was it
that Mr. Damon never noticed it. Then, like a flash something went
around him, and he let out a scream of terror.

San Pedro, who was nearest to him, saw and heard. The next instant
the black muleteer came rushing toward the camp, crying:

"He is caught in a rope! Mr. Damon is caught in a rope!"

"A rope!" repeated Ned, not understanding.

"Yes, a rope in a tree. Come quickly!"

Tom caught up one of the electric rifles and rushed forward. No
sooner had he set eyes on his friend, who was writhing about in the
folds of what looked like a big ship cable, then the young inventor
cried:

"A rope! Yes, a living rope! That's a big boa constrictor that has
Mr. Damon! Get a gun, Ned, and follow me! We must save him before he
is crushed to death!"

And the two lads rushed forward while the living rope drew its folds
tighter and tighter about the unfortunate man.




CHAPTER XII

A NATIVE BATTLE


"Bless my--!" but that was as far as poor Mr. Damon could get. The
breath was fairly squeezed out of him by the folds of the great
serpent that had dropped down out of the tree to crush him to death.
His head fell forward on his breast, and his arms were pinioned to
his sides.

"Quick, Ned!" cried Tom. "We must fire together! Be careful not to
hit Mr. Damon!"

"That's right. I'll take the snake on one side, Tom, and you on the
other!"

"No! Then we might hit each other. Come on my side. Aim for the
head, and throw in the highest charge. We want to kill, not stun!"

"Right!" gasped Ned, as he ran forward at his chum's side.

San Pedro, and the other natives, could do nothing. In the gathering
twilight, broken by the light of several campfires, they stood
helpless watching the two plucky youths advance to do battle with
the serpent. Eradicate had caught up a club, and had dashed forward
to do what he could, but Tom motioned him back.

"We can manage," spoke the young inventor.

Then he and Ned crept on with ready rifles. The snake raised its
ugly head and hissed, ceasing for a moment to constrict its coils
about the unfortunate man.

"Now's our chance--fire!" hoarsely whispered Ned.

It seemed as if the big snake heard, for, raising its head still
higher, it fairly glared at Ned and Tom. It was the very chance they
wanted, for they could now fire without the danger of hitting Mr.
Damon.

"Ready?" asked Tom of his chum in a low voice.

"Ready!" was the equally low answer.

It was necessary to kill the serpent at one shot, as to merely wound
it might mean that in its agony it would thresh about, and seriously
injure, if not kill, Mr. Damon.

"Fire!" called Tom in a whisper, and he and Ned pressed the triggers
of the electric rifles on the same instant.

There was a streak of bluish flame that cut like a sliver through
the gathering darkness, and then, as though a blight had fallen upon
it, the folds of the great snake relaxed, and Mr. Damon slipped to
the ground unconscious. The electric charges had gone fairly through
the head of the serpent and it had died instantly.

"Quick! Mr. Damon! We must get him away!" cried Tom. "He may be
dead!"

Together the chums sprang forward. The folds of the serpent had
scarcely ceased moving before the two youths snatched their friend
away. Dropping their rifles, they lifted him up to bear him to the
sleeping tent which had been erected.

"Liver pin!" suddenly ejaculated Mr. Damon. It was what he started
to say when the serpent had squeezed the breath out of him, and, on
regaining consciousness from his momentary faint, his brain carried
out the suggestion it had originally received.

"How are you?" cried Tom, nearly dropping Mr. Damon's legs in his
excitement, for he had hold of his feet, while Ned was at the head.

"Are you all right?" gasped Ned.

"Yes--I--I guess so. I--I feel as though I had been put through a
clothes wringer though. What happened?"

"A big snake dropped down out of a tree and grabbed you," answered
Tom.

"And then what? Put me down, boys, I guess I can walk."

"We shot it," said Ned modestly.

"Bless my insurance policy!" exclaimed the odd gentleman. "I--I
hardly know what to say. I'll say it later. You saved my life. Let
me see if any bones are broken."

None was, fortunately, and after staggering about a bit Mr. Damon
found that he could limp along. But he was very sore and bruised,
for, though the snake had squeezed him but for part of a minute,
that was long enough. A few seconds more and nearly every bone in
his body would have been crushed, for that is the manner in which a
constrictor snake kills its prey before devouring it.

"Santa Maria! The dear gentleman is not dead then?" cried San Pedro,
as the three approached the tents.

"Bless my name plate, no!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.

"Praise to all the saints! The brave young senors with their
wonderful guns saved him. Now you must rest and sleep."

"I feel as if that was all I wanted to do for a month," commented
Mr. Damon. His soreness and stiffness increased each minute, and he
was glad to get to bed, while the boys and Eradicate rubbed his
limbs with liniment. San Pedro knew of a leaf that grew in the
jungle which, when bruised, and made into poultices, had the
property of drawing out soreness. The next day he found some, and
Mr. Damon was wrapped up in bandages until he declared that he
looked like an Egyptian mummy.

But the leaf poultices did him good, and in a few days he was able
to be about, though he was still a trifle stiff. Of course the
cavalcade had to halt in the woods, but they did not mind this as
they had traveled well up to this time, and the enforced rest was
appreciated.

"Well, do you feel able to move along?" asked Tom of Mr. Damon one
morning, about a week later, for they were still in the "snake
camp," as they called it in memory of the big serpent.

"Oh, yes, I think so, Tom. Where are you going?"

"I want to push on to the next village. There I hope to get some
line on giant land, and really I ought to begin making inquiries
soon. San Pedro and the others are wondering what our object is, for
we haven't collected any specimens of either flowers or animals, or
the snake skin, and he thinks we are a sort of scientific
expedition."

"Well, let's travel then. I'm able."

So they started off once more along the jungle and forest trail. As
San Pedro had predicted, they came upon evidences of a native
village. Scattered huts, made of plastered mud and grass, with
thatched roofs of palm leaves, were met with, as they advanced, but
none of the places seemed to be inhabited, though rude gardens
around them showed that they had been the homes of natives up to
recently.

"No one seems to be at home," remarked Tom, when they had gone past
perhaps half a dozen of these lonely huts.

"I wonder what can be the matter?" asked Ned. "It looks as if they
had gone off in a hurry, too. Maybe there's been some sort of
epidemic."

"No, no sickness," said San Pedro. "Natives no sick."

"Bless my liver pill!" cried Mr. Damon, who was almost himself
again. "Then what is it?"

"Much fight, maybe."

"Much fight?" repeated Tom.

"Yes, tribes at war. Maybe natives go away so as not be killed."

"By Jove!" exclaimed the young inventor. "That's so. I forgot about
what Mr. Preston said. There's a native war going on around here.
Well, when we get to the town we can find out more about it, and
steer clear of the two armies, if we have to."

But as they went farther on, the evidences of a native war became
more pronounced. They passed several huts that had been burned, and
the native mule drivers began showing signs of fear.

"I don't like this," murmured Tom to his chum. "It looks bad."

"What can you do?"

"Nothing, I guess. We've got to keep on. No use turning back now.
Maybe the two rival forces have annihilated each other, and there
aren't any fighters left."

At that moment there arose a cry from some of the natives who, with
the mules and their burdens, had pressed on ahead.

"What's that?" exclaimed Tom.

"Something's happened!" gasped Ned.

"Bless my cartridge box!" cried Mr. Damon.

The three went forward and came to a little hill. They looked down
into a valley--a valley that had sheltered a native village, but the
village was no more. It was but a heap of blackened and fire-scarred
ruins, and there were still clouds of smoke arising from the grass
huts, showing that the enemy had but recently made their assault on
the place.

"Bless my heart!" cried Mr. Damon. "The whole place has been wiped
out."

"Not one hut left," added Ned.

"Hark!" cried Tom.

An instant later there arose, off in the woods, a chorus of wild
yells. It was followed by the weird sound of tom-toms and the gourd
and skin drums of the natives. The shouting noise increased, and the
sound of the war drums also.

"Look!" cried Mr. Damon, pointing to a distant hill, and there the
boys saw two large bodies of natives rushing toward one another,
brandishing spears, clubs and the deadly blow guns.

They were not more than half a mile away, and in plain view of Tom
and his party, though the two forces had not yet seen our friends.

"They're going to fight!" cried Tom.

And the next moment the two bodies of natives came together in a
mass, the enemies hurling themselves at each other with the
eagerness and ferocity of wild beasts. It was a deadly battle.




CHAPTER XIII

THE DESERTION


"Say, look at those fellows pitch into one another!" gasped Ned.

"It's fighting at close range all right," commented Mr. Damon.

"If they had rifles they wouldn't be at it hand to hand," spoke Tom.
"Maybe it's just as well they haven't, for there won't be so many
killed. But say, we'd better be thinking of ourselves. They may make
up their quarrel and turn against us any minute."

"No--never--no danger of them being friends--they are rival tribes,"
said San Pedro. "But either one may attack us--the one that is the
victor. It is better that we keep away."

"I guess you're right," agreed Tom. "Lead the way, San Pedro, and
we'll get out of sight."

But there was a fascination in watching the distant battle that was
hard to resist. It was like looking at a moving picture, for at that
distance none of the horrors of war were visible. True, natives went
down by scores, and it was not to be doubted but what they were
killed or injured, but it seemed more like a big football scrimmage
than a fight.

"This is great!" cried Tom. "I like to watch it, but I'm sorry for
the poor chaps that get hurt or killed. I hope they're only stunned
as we stunned the wild horses."

"I'm afraid it is more serious than that," spoke San Pedro. "These
natives are very bloodthirsty. It would not be well for us to incur
their anger."

"We won't run any chances," decided Tom. "We'll just travel on. Come
on, Ned--Mr. Damon."

As he spoke there was a sudden victorious shout from the scene of
the battle. One body of natives was seen to turn and flee, while the
others pursued them.

"Now's our time to make tracks!" called Tom. "We'll have to push on
to the next village before we can ask where the gi--" he caught
himself just in time, for San Pedro was looking curiously at him.

"The senor wishes to find something?" asked the head mule driver
with an insinuating smile.

"Yes," broke in Eradicate. "We all is lookin' fo' some monstrous
giant orchards flowers."

"Ah, yes, orchids," spoke San Pedro. "Well, there may be some in the
jungle ahead of us, but the senors have come the wrong trail for
flowers," and he looked curiously at Tom, while, from afar, come the
sound of the native battle though the combatants could no longer be
seen.

"Never mind," said our hero quickly. "I guess I'll find what I want.
Now come on."

They started off, skirting the burned village to get on the trail
beyond it. But hardly had they made a detour of the burned huts than
one of the native drivers, who was in the rear, came riding up with
a shout.

"Now what's the matter?" cried Tom, looking back.

There was a voluble chattering in Spanish between the driver and San
Pedro.

"He says the natives that lived in this village have driven their
enemies away, and are coming back--after us," translated the head
mule driver.

"After us!" gasped Ned.

"Yes," replied San Pedro simply. "They are coming even now. They
will fight too, for all their wild nature is aroused."

It needed but a moment's listening to prove this. From the rear came
wild yells and the beating of drums and tom-toms.

"Bless my fountain pen!" cried Mr. Damon. "What are we going to do?"

"Stop them if we can," answered Tom coolly. "Ned, you and I and Mr.
Damon will form a rear guard. San Pedro, take the mules and the men,
and make as good time as you can in advance. We'll take three of the
fastest mules, and hold these fellows back with the electric rifles,
and when we've done that we'll ride on and catch up to you."

"Very good," said San Pedro, who seemed relieved to know that he did
not have to do any of the fighting.

Three of the lighter weight mules, who carried small burdens, were
quickly relieved of them, and mounting these steeds in preference to
the ones they had been riding since they took the trail, Tom, Ned
and Mr. Damon dropped back to try and hold off the enemy.

They had not far to ride nor long to wait. They could hear the
fierce yells of the victorious tribesmen as they came back to their
ruined village, and though there were doubtless sad hearts among
them, they rejoiced that they had defeated their enemies. They knew
they could soon rebuild the simple grass huts.

"Small charges, just to stun them!" ordered Tom, and the electric
rifles were so adjusted.

"Here's a good place to meet them," suggested Ned, as they came to a
narrow turn in the trail. "They can't come against us but a few at a
time, and we can pump them full of electricity from here."

"The very thing!" cried Tom, as he dismounted, an example followed
by the others. Then, in another moment, they saw the blacks rushing
toward them. They were clad in nondescript garments, evidently of
their own make, and they carried clubs, spears, bows and arrows and
blow guns. There was not a firearm among them, as they passed on
after the party of our friends whom they had seen from the battle-hill.
They gave wild yells as they saw the young inventor's friends.

"Let 'em have it!" called Tom in a low voice, and the electric
rifles sent out their stunning charges. Several natives in the front
rank dropped, and there was a cry of fear and wonder from the
others. Then, after a moment's hesitation they pressed on again.

"Once more!" cried Tom.

Again the electric rifles spoke, and half a score went down
unconscious, but not seriously hurt. In a few hours they would be as
well as ever, such was the merciful charge that Tom Swift and the
others used in the rifles.

The third time they fired, and this was too much for the natives.
They could not battle against an unseen and silent enemy who mowed
them down like a field of grain. With wild yells they fled back
along the trail they had come.

"I guess that does it!" cried Tom. "We'd better join the others
now."

Mounting their mules, they galloped back to where San Pedro and his
natives were pressing forward.

"Did you have the honor of defeating them," the head mule driver
asked.

"I had the HONOR," answered Tom, with a grim smile.

Then they pressed on, but there was no more danger. That night they
camped in a peaceful valley and were not disturbed, and the
following day they put a good many miles behind them. On the advice
of San Pedro, they avoided the next two villages as they realized
that they were in the war zone, and then they headed for a large
town where Tom was sure he would hear some news of the giants.

They had to camp twice at night before reaching this town, and when
they did get to it they were warmly welcomed, for white explorers
had been there years before, and had treated the natives well. Tom
distributed many trinkets among the head men and won their good will
so that the party was given comfortable huts in which to sleep, and
a plentiful supply of provisions.

"Can you arrange for a talk with the chief?" asked Tom of San Pedro
that night. "I want to ask him about certain things."

"About where you can find giant flowers?" asked the mule driver with
a quick look.

"Yes--er--and other giant things," replied Tom.  "I fix," answered
San Pedro shortly, but there was a queer look on his face.

A few hours later Tom was summoned to the hut of the chief of the
town, and thither he went with Ned, Mr. Damon and San Pedro as
interpreter, for the natives spoke a jargon of their own that Tom
could not understand.

There were some simple ceremonies to observe, and then Tom found
himself facing the chief, with San Pedro by his side. After the
greetings, and an exchange of presents, Tom giving him a cheap
phonograph with which the chief was wildly delighted, there came the
time to talk.

"Ask him where the giant men live?" our hero directed San Pedro,
believing that the time had now come to disclose the object of his
expedition.

"Giant men, Senor Swift? I thought it was giant plants--orchids--you
were after," exclaimed San Pedro.

"Well, I'll take a few giant men if I can find them. Tell him I
understand there is a tribe of giants in this country. Ask him if he
ever heard of them."

San Pedro hesitated. He looked at Tom, and the young inventor
fancied that there was a tinge of white on the swarthy face of the
chief mule driver. But San Pedro translated the question.

Its effect on the chief was strange. He half leaped from his seat,
and stared at Tom. Then he uttered a cry--a cry of fear--and spoke
rapidly.

"What does he say?" asked Tom of San Pedro eagerly, when the chief
had ceased speaking.

"He say--he say," began the mule driver and the words seemed to
stick in his throat--"he say there ARE giants--many miles to the
north. Terrible big men--very cruel--and they are fearful. Once they
came here and took some of his people away. He is afraid of them. We
are ALL afraid of them," and San Pedro looked around apprehensively,
as though he might see one of the giants stalking into the chief's
hut at any moment.

"Ask him how many miles north?" asked Tom, hardly able to conceal
his delight. The giants had no terrors for him.

"Two weeks journey," translated San Pedro.

"Good!" cried the young inventor. "Then we'll keep right on. Hurrah!
I'm on the right track at last, and I'll have a giant for the circus
and we may be able to rescue Mr. Poddington!"

"Is the senor in earnest?" asked San Pedro, looking at Tom
curiously. "Is he really going among these terrible giants?"

"Yes, but I don't believe they'll be so terrible. They may be very
gentle. I'm sure they'll be glad to come with me and join a circus--some
of them--and earn a hundred dollars a week. Of course we're going
on to giant land!"

"Very good," said San Pedro quietly, and then he followed Tom out of
the chief's hut.

"It's all right, Ned old sport, we'll get to giant land after all!"
cried Tom to his chum as they reached the hut where they were
quartered.

The next morning when Tom got up, and looked for San Pedro and his
men, to give orders about the march that day, the mule drivers were
nowhere to be seen. Nor were the mules in the places where they had
been tethered. Their packs lay in a well ordered heap, but the
animals and their drivers were gone.

"This is queer," said Tom, rubbing his eyes to make sure that he saw
aright. "I wonder where they are? Rad, look around for them."

The colored man did so, and came back soon, to report that San Pedro
and his men had gone in the night. Some of the native villagers told
him so by signs, Eradicate said. They had stolen away.

"Gone!" gasped Tom. "Gone where?"

"Bless my railroad ticket!" cried Mr. Damon.

"We're deserted," exclaimed Ned. "They've taken the mules, and left
us."

"I guess that's it," admitted Tom ruefully, after a minute's
thought. "San Pedro couldn't stand for the giants. He's had a
frightful flunk. Well, we're all alone, but we'll go on to giant
land anyhow! We can get more mules. A little thing like this can't
phase me. Are you with me, Ned--Mr. Damon--Eradicate?"

"Of course we are!" they cried without a moment's hesitation.

"Then we'll go to giant land alone!" exclaimed Tom. "Come on, now,
and we'll see if we can arrange for some pack animals."




CHAPTER XIV

IN GIANT LAND


When it first became sure that San Pedro and the other natives had
deserted--fled in the night, for fear of the giants--there was a
reactionary feeling of despondency and gloom among Tom and his three
friends. But the boldness and energy of the young inventor, his
vigorous words, his determination to proceed at any cost to the
unknown land that lay before them--these served as a tonic, and
after a few moments, Ned, Mr. Damon, and even Eradicate looked at
things with brighter spirits.

"Do you really mean it, Tom?" asked Ned. "Will you go on to giant
land?"

"I surely will, if we can find it. Why, we found the city of gold
all alone, you and Mr. Damon and I, and I don't see why we can't
find this land, especially when all we have to do is to march
forward."

"But look at the lot of stuff we have to carry!" went on Ned, waving
his hand toward the heap of packs that the mule drivers had left
behind.

"Bless my baggage check, yes!" added Mr. Damon. "We can never do it.
Tom. We had better leave it here, and try to get back to
civilization."

"Never!" cried Tom. "I started off after a giant, and I'm going to
get one, if I can induce one of the big men to come back with me.
I'm not going to give up when we're so close. We can get more pack
animals, I'm sure. I'm going to have a try for it. If I can't speak
the language of these natives I can make signs. Come on, Ned, we'll
pay a morning visit to the chief."

"I'll come along," added Mr. Damon.

"That's right," replied the young inventor. "Rad, you go stand guard
over our stuff. Some of the natives might not be able to withstand
temptation. Don't let them touch anything."

"Dat's what I won't, Massa Tom. Good land a massy! ef I sees any ob
'em lay a finger on a pack I'll shoot off my shotgun close to der
ears, so I will. Oh, ef I only had Boomerang here, he could carry
mos' all ob dis stuff his own se'f."

"You've got a great idea of Boomerang's strength," remarked Tom with
a laugh, as he and Ned and Mr. Damon started for the big hut where
the chief lived.

"Do you really think San Pedro and the others left because they were
afraid of the giants we might meet?" asked Ned.

"I think so," answered his chum.

"Bless my toothpick!" gasped Mr. Damon. "In that case maybe we'd
better be on the lookout ourselves."

"Time enough to worry when we get there," answered the young
inventor. "From what the circus man said the giants are not
particularly cruel. Of course Mr. Preston didn't have much
information to go on, but--well, we'll have to wait--that's all. But
I'm sure San Pedro and the others were in a blue funk and vamoosed
on that account."

"Hey, Massa Tom!" suddenly called Eradicate. "Heah am a letter I
found on de baggage," and he ran forward with a missive, rudely
scrawled on a scrap of paper.

"It's from San Pedro," remarked Tom after a glance at it, "and it
bears out what I said. He writes that he and his men never suspected
that we were going after the giants, or they would never have come
with us. He says they are very sorry to leave us, as we treated them
well, but are afraid to go on. He adds that they have taken enough
of our bartering goods to make up their wages, and enough food to
carry them to the next village."

"Well," finished Tom. as he folded the paper, "I suppose we can't
kick, and, maybe after all, it will be for the best. Now to see if
the chief can let us have some mules."

It took some time, by means of signs, to make the chief understand
what had happened, but, when Tom had presented him with a little toy
that ran by a spring, and opened up a pack of trading goods, which
he indicated would be exchanged for mules, or other beasts of
burden, the chief grinned in a friendly fashion, and issued certain
orders.

Several of his men hurried from the big hut, and a little later,
when Tom was showing the chief how to run the toy, there was a sound
of confusion outside.

"Bless my battle axe!" cried Mr. Damon. "I hope that's not another
war going on."

"It's our new mules!" cried Ned, taking a look. "And some cows and a
bony horse or two, Tom. We've drawn a rich lot of pack animals!"

Indeed there was a nondescript collection of beasts of burden. There
were one or two good mules, several sorry looking horses, and a
number of sleepy-eyed steers. But there were enough of them to carry
all the boxes and bales that contained the outfit of our friends.

"It might be worse," commented Tom. "Now if they'll help us pack up
we'll travel on."

More sign language was resorted to, and the chief, after another
present had been made to him, sent some of his men to help put the
packs on the animals. The steers, which Tom did not regard with much
favor, proved to be better than the mules, and by noon our friends
were all packed up again, and ready to take the trail. The chief
gave them a good dinner,--as native dinners go,--and then, after
telling them that, though he had never seen the giants it had long
been known that they inhabited the country to the north, he waved
a friendly good-bye.

"Well, we'll see what luck we'll have by ourselves," remarked Tom,
as he mounted a bony mule, an example followed by Ned, Mr. Damon and
Eradicate, They had left behind some of their goods, and so did not
have so much to carry. Food they had in condensed form and they were
getting into the more tropical part of the country where game
abounded.

It was not as easy as they had imagined it would be for, with only
four to drive so many animals, several of the beasts were
continually straying from the trail, and once a big steer, with part
of the aeroplane on its back, wandered into a morass and they had to
labor hard to get the animal out.

"Well, this is fierce!" exclaimed Tom, at the end of the first day
when, tired and weary, bitten by insects, and torn by jungle briars,
they made camp that night.

"Going to give up?" asked Ned.

"Not much!"

They felt better after supper, and, tethering the animals securely,
they stretched out in their tents, with mosquito canopies over them
to keep away the pestering insects.

"I've got a new scheme," announced Tom next morning at breakfast.

"What is it? Going on the rest of the way in the aeroplane?" asked
Ned hopefully.

"No, though I believe if I had brought the big airship along I could
have used it. But I mean about driving the animals. I'm going to
make a long line of them, tying one to the other like the elephants
in the circus when they march around, holding each other's tails.
Then one of us will ride in front, another in the rear, and one on
each side. In that way we'll keep them going and they won't stray
off."

"Bless my button hook!" cried Mr. Damon. "That's a good idea, Tom!"
It was carried out with much success, and thereafter they traveled
better.

But even at the best it was not easy work, and more than once Tom's
friends urged him to turn back. But he would not, ever pressing on,
with the strange land for his goal. They had long since passed the
last of the native villages, and they had to depend on their own
efforts for food. Fortunately they did not have any lack of game,
and they fared well with what they had with them in the packs.

Occasionally they met little bands of native hunters, and, though
usually these men fled at the sight of our friends, yet once they
managed to make signs to one, who, informed them as best he could,
that giant land was still far ahead of them.

Twice they heard distant sounds of native battles and the weird
noise of the wooden drums and the tom-toms. Once, as they climbed up
a big hill, they looked down into a valley and saw a great conflict
in which there must have been several thousand natives on either
side. It was a fierce battle, seen even from afar, and Tom and the
others shuddered as they slipped down over the other side of the
rise, and out of sight.

"We'd better steer clear of them," was Tom's opinion; and the others
agreed with him.

For another week they kept on, the way becoming more and more
difficult, and the country more and more wild. They had fairly to
cut their way through the jungle at times, and the only paths were
animal trails, but they were better than nothing. For the last five
days they had not seen a human being, and the loneliness was telling
on them.

"I'd be glad to see even a two-headed giant," remarked Tom
whimsically one night as they made their camp.

"Yes, and I'd be glad to hear someone talk, even in the sign
language," added Ned, with a grin.

They slept well, for they were very tired, and Tom, who shared his
tent with Ned, was awakened rather early the next morning by hearing
someone moving outside the canvas shelter.

"Is that you, Mr. Damon?" he asked, the odd gentleman having a tent
adjoining that of the boys.

There was no answer.

"Rad, are you getting breakfast?" asked the young inventor. "What
time is it?"

Still no answer.

"What's the matter?" asked Ned, who had been awakened by Tom's
inquiries.

Before our hero had a chance to reply the flap of his tent was
pulled back, and a head was thrust in. But such a head! It was
enormous! A head covered with a thick growth of tawny hair, and a
face almost hidden in a big tawny, bushy beard. Then an arm was
thrust in--an arm that terminated in a brawny fist that clasped a
great club. There was no mistaking the object that gazed in on the
two youths. It was a gigantic man--a man almost twice the size of
any Tom had ever seen. And then our hero knew that he had reached
the end of his quest.

"A giant!" gasped Tom. "Ned! Ned, we're in the big men's country,
and we didn't know it!"

"I--I guess you're right, Tom!"

The giant started at the sounds of their voices, and then his face
breaking into a broad grin, that showed a great mouth filled with
white teeth, he called to them in an unknown tongue and in a voice
that seemed to fairly shake the frail tent.




CHAPTER XV

IN THE "PALACE" OF THE KING


For a few moments after their first ejaculations neither Tom nor Ned
knew what to do. The giant continued to gaze at them, with the same
good-natured grin on his face. Possibly he was amused at the small
size of the persons in the tent. Then Tom spoke.

"He doesn't look as if he would bite, Ned."

"No, he seems harmless enough. Let's get up, and see what happens. I
wonder if there are any more of them? They must have come out on an
early hunt, and stumbled upon our camp."

At this moment there arose a cry from Mr. Damon's tent.

"Bless my burglar alarm!" shouted the odd gentleman. "Tom--Ned--am I
dreaming? There's a man here as big as a mountain. Tom! Ned!"

"It's all right, Mr. Damon!" called Tom. "We're among the giants all
right. They won't hurt you."

"Fo' de good land ob massy!" screamed Eradicate, a second later, and
then they knew that he, too, had seen one of the big men. "Fo' de
lub ob pork chops! Am dis de Angel Gabriel? Listen to de blowin' ob
de trump! Oh, please good Massa Angel Gabriel, I ain't nebber done
nuffin! I's jest po' ol' Eradicate Sampson, an' I got a mule
Boomerang, and' dat's all I got. Please good Mr. Angel--"

"Dry up, Rad!" yelled Tom. "It's only one of the giants. Come on out
of your tent and get breakfast. We're on the borders of giant land,
evidently, and they seem as harmless as ordinary men. Get up,
everybody."

As Tom spoke he rose from the rubber blanket on which he slept. Ned
did the same, and the giant slowly pulled his head out from the
tent. Then the two youths went outside. A strange sight met their
gaze.

There were about ten natives standing in the camp--veritable giants,
big men in every way. The young inventor had once seen a giant in a
circus, and, allowing for shoes with very thick soles which the big
man wore, his height was a little over seven feet. But these South
American giants seemed more than a foot higher than that, none of
those who had stumbled upon the camp being less than eight feet.

"And I believe there must be bigger ones in their land, wherever
that is," said Tom. Nor were these giants tall and thin, as was the
one Tom had seen, but stout, and well proportioned. They were
savages, that was evident, but the curious part of it was that they
were almost white, and looked much like the pictures of the old
Norsemen.

But, best of all, they seemed good-natured, for they were
continually laughing or smiling, and though they looked with wonder
on the pile of boxes and bales, and on the four travelers, they
seemed more bewildered and amused, than vindictive that their
country should have been invaded. Evidently the fears of the natives
who had told Tom about the giants had been unfounded.

By this time Mr. Damon and Eradicate had come from their tents, and
were gazing with startled eyes at the giants who surrounded them.

"Bless my walking stick!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Is it possible?"

"Yes, we've arrived!" cried Tom. "Now to see what happens. I wonder
if they'll take us to their village, and I wonder if I can get one
of these giants for Mr. Preston's circus?"

"You certainly can't unless he wants to come," declared Ned. "You'd
have a hard tussle trying to carry one of these fellows away against
his will, Tom."

"I sure would. I'll have to make inducements. Well, I wonder what is
best to do?"

The giant who had looked in the tent of Ned and Tom, and who
appeared to be the leader of the party, now spoke in his big,
booming voice. He seemed to be asking Tom a question, but the young
inventor could not understand the language. Tom replied in Spanish,
giving a short account of why he and his companions had come to the
country, but the giant shook his head. Then Mr. Damon, who knew
several languages, tried all of them--but it was of no use.

"We've got to go back to signs," declared Tom, and then, as best he
could, he indicated that he and the others had come from afar to
seek the giants. He doubted whether he was understood, and he
decided to wait until later to try and make them acquainted with the
fact that he wanted one of them to come back with him.

The head giant nodded, showing that at least he understood
something, and then spoke to his companions. They conversed in their
loud voices for some time, and then motioned to the pack animals.

"I guess they want us to come along," said Tom, "but let's have
breakfast first. Rad, get things going. Maybe the giants will have
some coffee and condensed milk, though they'll have to take about
ten cupsful to make them think they've had anything. Make a lot of
coffee, Rad."

"But good land a massy, dey'll eat up eberyt'ing we got, Massa Tom,"
objected the colored man.

"Can't help it, Rad. They're our guests and we've got to be polite,"
replied the youth. "It isn't every day that we have giants to
breakfast."

The big men watched curiously while Rad built a fire, and when the
colored man was trying to break a tough stick of wood with the axe,
one of the giants picked up the fagot and snapped it in his fingers
as easily as though it were a twig, though the stick was as thick as
Tom's arm.

"Some strength there," murmured Ned to his chum admiringly.

"Yes, if they took a notion to go on a rampage we'd have trouble.
But they seem kind and gentle."

Indeed the giants did, and they liked the coffee which they tasted
rather gingerly at first. After their first sip they wanted more,
made as sweet as possible, and they laughed and talked among
themselves while Eradicate boiled pot after pot.

"Dey suah will eat us out of house an' home, Massa Tom," he wailed.

"Never mind, Rad. They will feed us well when we get to their town."

Then the pack animals were laden with their burdens. This was always
a task, but for the giants it was child's play. With one hand they
would lift a box or bale that used to tax the combined strength of
the four travelers, and soon the steers, horses and mules were ready
to proceed. The giants went on ahead, to show the way, the first
one, who seemed to be called "Oom," for that was the way his
companions addressed him, walked beside Tom, who rode on a mule. In
fact the giant had to walk slowly, so as not to get ahead of the
animal. Oom tried to talk to Tom, but it was hard work to pick out
the signs that meant something, and so neither gained much
information.

Tom did gather, however, that the giants were out on an early hunt
when they had discovered our friends, and their chief town lay about
half a day's journey off in the jungle. The path along which they
proceeded, was better than the forest trails, and showed signs of
being frequently used.

"It doesn't seem possible that we are really among giants, Tom,"
spoke Ned, as they rode along. "I hardly believed there were
giants."

"There always have been giants," declared the young inventor. "I
read about them in an encyclopedia before I started on this trip. Of
course there's lots of wild stories about giants, but there have
really been some very big men. Take the skeleton in the museum of
Trinity College, Dublin. It is eight feet and a half in height, and
the living man must have even taller. There was a giant named
O'Brien, and his skeleton is in the College of Physicians and
Surgeons of England--that one is eight feet two inches high, while
there are reliable records to show that, when living, O'Brien was
two inches taller than that. In fact, according to the books, there
have been a number of giants nine feet high."

"Then these chaps aren't so wonderful," replied Ned.

"Oh, we haven't seen them all yet. We may find some bigger than
these fellows, though any one of these would be a prize for a
museum. Not a one is less than eight feet, and if we could get one
say ten feet--that WOULD be a find."

"Rather an awkward one," commented Ned.

It did not seem possible that they were really in giant land, yet
such was the fact. Of course the country itself was no different
from any other part of the jungle, for merely because big men lived
in it did not make the trees or plants any larger.

"I tell you how I account for it," said Tom, as they traveled on.
"These men originally belonged to a race of people noted for their
great size. Then they must have lived under favorable conditions,
had plenty of flesh and bone-forming food, and after several
generations they gradually grew larger. You know that by feeding the
right kind of food to animals you can make them bigger, while if
they get the wrong kind they are runts, or dwarfs."

"Oh, yes; that's a well-known fact," chimed in Mr. Damon.

"Then why not with human beings?" went on Tom. "There's nothing
wonderful in this."

"No, but it will be wonderful if we get away with one of these
giants," spoke Ned grimly.

Further talk was interrupted by a sudden shouting on the part of the
big men. Oom made some rapid motions to Tom, and a little later they
emerged from the woods upon a large, grassy plain, on the other side
of which could be seen a cluster of big grass and mud huts.

"There is the city of the giants!" cried Tom, and so it proved, a
little later, when they got to it.

Now there was nothing remarkable about this city or native town. It
was just like any other in the wilder parts of South America or
Africa. There was a central place, where, doubtless, the natives
gathered on market days, and from this the huts of the inhabitants
stretched out in irregular lines, like streets. Off to one side of
the "market square," as Tom called it, was a large hut, surrounded
by several smaller ones, and from the manner in which it was laid
out, and decorated, it was evident that this was the "palace" of the
king, or chief ruler.

"Say, look at that fellow!" cried Ned, pointing to a giant who was
just entering the "palace" as Tom dubbed the big hut. "He LOOKS
eleven feet if he's an inch."

"I believe you!" cried Tom. "Say, I wonder how big the king is?"

"I don't know, but he must be a top-notcher. I wonder what will
happen to us?"

Oom, who had Tom and his party in charge, led them to the "palace"
and it was evident that they were going to be presented to the chief
or native king. Back of our friends stretched out their pack train,
the beasts carrying the boxes and bales. Surrounding them were
nearly all the inhabitants of the giants' town, and when the
cavalcade had come to a halt in front of the "palace," Oom raised
his voice in a mighty shout. It was taken up by the populace, and
then every one of them knelt down.

"I guess His Royal Highness is about to appear," said Tom grimly.

"Yes, maybe we'd better kneel, too," spoke Ned.

"Not much! We're citizens of the United States, and we don't kneel
to anybody. I'm going to stand up."

"So am I!" said Mr. Damon.

An instant later the grass mat that formed the front door of the
"palace" was drawn aside, and there stood confronting our hero and
his friends, the King of Giant Land. And a mighty king was he in
size, for he must have been a shade over ten feet tall, while on
either side of him was a man nearly as big as himself.

Once more Oom boomed out a mighty shout and, kneeling as the giants
were, they took it up, repeating it three times. The king raised his
hand as though in blessing upon his people, and then, eyeing Tom and
his three friends he beckoned them to approach.

"He wants to see us at close range," whispered the young inventor.
"Come on, Ned and Mr. Damon. Trail along, Eradicate."

"Good--good land ob massy!" stammered the colored man. And then the
little party advanced into the "palace" of the giant king.




CHAPTER XVI

THE RIVAL CIRCUS MAN


Tom Swift gazed fearlessly into the face of the giant ruler who
confronted him. The young inventor said later that he had made up
his mind that to show no fear was the only way of impressing the big
king, for surely no show of strength could have done it. With one
hand the giant could have crushed the life from our hero. But
evidently he had no such intentions, for after gazing curiously at
the four travelers who stood before him, and looking for some time
at the honest, black face of Eradicate, the king made a motion for
them to sit down. They did, upon grass mats in the big hut that
formed the palace of the ruler.

It was not a very elaborate place, but then the king's wants were
few and easily satisfied. The place was clean, Tom was glad to note.

The king, who was addressed by his subjects as Kosk, as nearly as
Tom could get it, asked some questions of Oom, who seemed to be the
chief of the hunters. Thereupon the man who had looked into Tom's
and Ned's tent that morning, and who had followed them into the
palace, began a recital of how he had found the little travelers.
Though Tom and his friends could not understand a word of the
language, it was comparatively easy to follow the narrative by the
gestures used.

Then the king asked several questions, others of the hunting party
were sent for and quizzed, and finally the ruler seemed satisfied,
for he rattled off a string of talk in his deep, booming voice.

Truly he was a magnificent specimen of manhood, being as I have
said, about ten feet tall, and built in proportion. On either side
of him, upon rude benches covered with soft jaguar skins, sat two
men, evidently his brothers, for they looked much like the king. One
was called Tola and the other Koku, for the ruler addressed them
from time to time, and seemed to be asking their advice.

"They're making up their minds what to do with us," murmured Tom. "I
only hope they let us stay long enough to learn the language, and
then I can make an offer to take one back to the United States with
me."

"Jove! Wouldn't it be great if you could get the king!" exclaimed
Ned.

"Oh, that's too much, but I'd like one of his brothers. They're each
a good nine feet tall, and they must be as strong as horses."

In contrast to some giants of history, whose only claim to notoriety
lay in their height, these giants were very powerful. Many giants
have flabby muscles, but these of South America were like athletes.
Tom realized this when there suddenly entered the audience chamber a
youth of about our hero's age, but fully seven feet tall, and very
big. He was evidently the king's son, for he wore a jaguar skin,
which seemed to be a badge of royalty. He had seemingly entered
without permission, to see the curious strangers, for the king spoke
quickly to him, and then to Tola, who with a friendly grin on his
big face lifted the lad with one hand and deposited him in a room
that opened out of the big chamber.

"Did you see that!" cried Ned. "He lifted him as easily as you or I
would a cat, and I'll bet that fellow weighed close to four hundred
pounds, Tom."

"I should say so! It's great!"

The audience was now at an end, and Tom thought it was about time to
make some sort of a present to the king to get on good terms with
him. He looked out of the palace hut and saw that their pack animals
were close at hand. Nearby was one that had on its back a box
containing a phonograph and some records.

Making signs that he wanted to bring in some of his baggage, Tom
stepped out of the hut, telling his friends to wait for him. The
king and the other giants watched the lad curiously, but did not
endeavor to stop him.

"I'm going to give him a little music," went on the young inventor
as he adjusted the phonograph, and slipped in a record of a lively
dance air. His motions were curiously watched, and when the
phonograph started and there was a whirr of the mechanism, some of
the giants who had crowded into the king's audience chamber, showed
a disposition to run. But a word of command from their ruler stopped
them.

Suddenly the music started and, coming forth as it did from the
phonograph horn, in the midst of that hut, in which stood the
silence-awed giants, it was like a bolt of lightning from the clear
sky.

At first the king and all the others seemed struck dumb, and then
there arose a mighty shout, and one word was repeated over and over
again. It sounded like "Chackalok! Chackalok!" and later Tom learned
that it meant wizard, magician or something like that.

Shout after shout rent the air, and was taken up by those outside,
for through the open door the strains of music floated. The giants
seemed immensely pleased, after their first fright, and suddenly the
king, coming down from his throne, stood with his big ear as nearly
inside the horn as he could get it.

A great grin spread over his face and then, approaching Tom, he
leaned over, touched him once on the forehead, and uttered a word.
At this sign of royal favor the other giants at once bowed to Tom.

"Say," cried Ned, "you've got his number all right! You're one of
the royal family now, Tom."

"It looks like it. Well, I'm glad of it, for I want to be on
friendly terms with His Royal Highness."

Once more the king addressed Tom, and the head hunter, motioning to
Tom and his friends, led them out of the palace, and to a large hut
not far off. This, he made himself understood by signs, was to be
their resting place, and truly it was not a bad home, for it was
well made. It had simple furniture in it, low couches covered with
skins, stools, and there were several rooms to it.

Calling in authorative tones to his fellow hunters, Tom had them
take the packs off the beasts of burdens and soon the boxes, bales
and packages were carried into the big hut, which was destined to be
the abiding place of our friends for some time. The animals were
then led away.

"Well, here we are, safe and sound, with all our possessions about
us," commented Tom, when all but Oom had withdrawn. "I guess we'll
make out all right in giant land. I wonder what they have to eat? Or
perhaps we'd better tackle some of our own grub."

He looked at Oom, who laughed gleefully. Then Tom rubbed his
stomach, opened his mouth and pointed to it and said: "We'd like to
eat--we're hungry!"

Oom boomed out something in his bass voice, grinned cheerfully, and
hurried out. A little later he came back, and following him, a
number of giant women. Each one bore a wooden platter or slab of
bark which answered for a plate. The plates were covered with broad
palm leaves, and when they had been set down on low benches, and the
coverings removed, our friends saw they had food in abundance.

There was some boiled lamb, some roasted fowls, some cereal that
looked like boiled rice, some sweet potatoes, a number of other
things which could only be guessed at, and a big gourd filled with
something that smelled like sweet cider.

"Say, this is a feast all right, after what we've been living on!"
cried Tom.

Once more Oom laughed joyfully, pointing to the food and to our
friends in turn.

"Oh, we'll eat all right!" exclaimed Tom. "Don't worry about that!"

The good-natured giant showed them where they could find rude wooden
dishes and table implements, and then he left them alone. It was
rather awkward at first, for though the bench or table looked low in
comparison to the size of the room, yet it was very high, to allow
for the long legs of the giants getting under it.

"If we stay here long enough we can saw off the table legs," said
the young inventor. "Now for our first meal in giant land."

They were just helping themselves when there arose a great shouting
outside.

"I wonder what's up now?" asked Tom, pausing with upraised fork.

"Maybe the king is coming to see us," suggested Ned.

"I'll look," volunteered Mr. Damon, as he went to the door. Then he
called quickly:

"Tom! Ned! Look! It's that minister we met on the ship--Reverend
Josiah Blinderpool! How in the world did he ever get here? And how
strangely he's dressed!"

Well might Mr. Damon say this, for the supposed clergyman was
attired in a big checked suit, a red vest, a tall hat and white
canvas shoes. In fact he was almost like some theatrical performer.

The gaudily-dressed man was accompanied by two natives, and all rode
mules, and there were three other animals, laden with packs on
either side.

"What's his game?" mused Ned.

The answer came quickly and from the man himself. Riding forward
toward the king's hut or palace, while the populace of wondering
giants followed behind, the man raised his voice in a triumphant
announcement.

"Here at last!" he cried. "In giant land! And I'm ahead of Tom Swift
for all his tricks. I've got Tom Swift beat a mile."

"Oh, you have!" shouted our hero with a sudden resolve, as he
stepped into view. "Well, you've got another guess coming. I'm here
ahead of you, and there's standing room only."

"Tom Swift!" gasped the rival circus man. "Tom Swift here in ahead
of me!"




CHAPTER XVII

HELD CAPTIVES


There was a great commotion among the giants. Men, women and
children ran to and fro, and a number of the largest of the big men
could be seen hurrying into the palace hut of King Kosk. If the
arrival of Tom and his friends had created a surprise it was more
than doubled when the circus man, and his small caravan, advanced
into the giants' city. His approach had been unheralded because the
giants were so taken up with Tom and his party that no one thought
to guard the paths leading into the village. And, as a matter of
fact, the giants were so isolated, they were so certain of their own
strength, and they had been unmolested so many years, that they did
not dream of danger.

As for our hero, he stood in the hut gazing at his rival, while Hank
Delby, in turn, stared at the young inventor. Then Hank dismounted
from his mule and approached Tom's hut.

"Bless my railroad ticket!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "This is a curious
state of affairs! What in the world are we to do, Tom?"

"I don't know, I'm sure. We'll have to wait until we see what HE
does. He's been following us all along. He was that fake minister on
the boat. It's a wonder we didn't get on to him. I believe he's been
trying to learn our secret ever since Mr. Preston warned us about
him. Now he's here and he'll probably try to spoil our chances for
getting a giant so that he may get one for himself. Perhaps Andy
Foger gave him a tip about our plans."

"But can't we stop him?" asked Ned.

"I'm going to try!" exclaimed Tom grimly.

"Here he comes," spoke Mr. Damon quickly. "I wonder what he wants?"

Hank Delby had started toward the big hut that sheltered our
friends, while the gathered crowd of curious giants looked on and
wondered what the arrival of two white parties so close together
could mean.

"Well, what do you want?" asked Tom, when, his rival had come within
speaking distance.

"There's no use beating about the bush with you, Tom Swift," was the
frank answer. "I may as well out with it. I came after a giant, and
I'm going to get one for Mr. Waydell."

"Then you took advantage of our trail, and followed us?" asked the
young inventor.

"Oh, you can put it that way if you like," replied Delby calmly. "I
HAVE followed you, and a hard time I've had of it. I tried to do it
quietly, but you got on to my tricks. However it doesn't matter. I'm
here now, and I'm going to beat you out if I can."

"I remember now!" exclaimed Ned whispering in Tom's ear, "he was
disguised as one of the mule drivers and you fired him because he
had a revolver. Don't you remember, Tom?"

"That's right!" exclaimed the young inventor as he noted the face
and form of Delby more closely. Then our hero added: "You played a
low-down trick, Mr. Delby, and it won't do you any good. I caught
you trying to sneak along in my company and I'll catch you again.
I'm here first, and I've got the best right to try and get a giant
for Mr. Preston, and if you had any idea of fair play--"

"All's fair in this business, Tom Swift," was the quick answer. "I'm
going to do my best to beat you, and I expect you to do your best to
beat me. I can't speak any fairer than that. It's war between us,
from now on, and you might as well know it. One thing I will promise
you, though, if there's any danger of you or your party getting hurt
by these big men I'll fight on your side. But I guess they are too
gentle to fight."

"We can look after ourselves," declared Tom. "And since it's to be
war between us look out for yourself."

"Don't worry!" exclaimed Tom's rival with a laugh. "I've gone
through a lot to get here, and I'm not going to give up without a
struggle. I guess--"

But he did not finish his sentence for at that moment Oom, the big
hunting giant, came up behind him, tapped him on the shoulder, and
pointed to the king's hut, motioning to indicate that Mr. Delby was
wanted there.

"Very good," said the circus agent in what he tried to make sound
like a jolly voice, "I'm to call on his majesty; am I? Here's where
I beat you to it, Tom Swift."

Tom did not answer, but there was a worried look on his face, as he
turned to join his friends in the big hut. And, as he looked from a
window, and saw Delby being led into the presence of Kosk, Tom could
hear the strains of the big phonograph he had presented to the king.

"I guess his royal highness will remain friends with us," said Ned
with a smile, as he heard the music. "He can see what a lot of
presents and other things we have, and as for that Delby, he doesn't
seem to have much of anything."

"Oh, I haven't shown half the things I have as yet," spoke Tom. "But
I don't like this, just the same. Those giants may turn from us, and
favor him on the slightest pretence. I guess we've got our work cut
out for us."

"Then let's plan some way to beat him," suggested Mr. Damon. "Look
over your goods, Tom, and make the king a present that will bind his
friendship to us."

"I believe I will," decided the young inventor and then he and Ned
began overhauling the boxes and bales, while a crowd of curious
giants stood without their hut, and another throng surrounded the
palace of the giant king.

"There goes Delby out to get something from his baggage," announced
Ned, looking from the window. Tom saw his rival taking something
from one of the packs slung across the back of a mule. Soon the
circus agent hurried back into the king's hut, and a moment later
there was heard the strains of a banjo being picked by an
unpracticed hand. It was succeeded by a rattling tune played in good
style.

"Bless my fiddlestick!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "Does your phonograph
have a banjo record, Tom?"

"No." was the somewhat hesitating answer of the young inventor.
"Delby who can play a banjo himself must have given Kosk one for a
present, and, like a child, the king is amused by the latest
novelty. So far he has scored one on us," he added, as once more
they heard the unmelodious strains of the banjo slowly picked. "The
king is evidently learning to play the instrument, and he'd rather
have that than a phonograph, which only winds up."

"But haven't you some other things you can give the king to off-set
the banjo?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Plenty of them," replied Tom. "But if I give him--say a toy steam
engine, for I have one among our things--what is to prevent Delby
giving him some other novelty that will take his attention? In that
way we'll sea-saw back and forth, and I guess Delby has had more
experience in this business than I have. It's going to be a question
which of us gets a giant."

"Bless my reserved seat ticket!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I never heard
of such a thing! But, Tom, I'm sure we'll win out."

"Get something startling to give the king," advised Ned, and Tom
began opening one of the boxes that had been transported with such
labor from the coast.

"Delby had much better luck with his mule drivers than we did Tom,"
remarked Ned as he saw the two natives standing by the pack animals
of the rival circus man. "They evidently didn't get scared off by
the giants."

"No, but probably he didn't tell them where they were headed for.
Though, as a matter of fact, I don't believe any one has anything to
fear from these big men. All they ask is to be let alone. They're
not at all warlike, and I don't believe they'd attack the other
natives. But probably their size makes them feared, and when our
drivers heard the word 'giant' they simply wilted."

"Guess you're right. But come on, Tom. If we're going to make the
king a present that will open his eyes, and get him on our side
instead of Delby's, we'd better be getting at it."

"I will. This is what I'm going to give him," and Tom brought out
from a box a small toy circus, with many performing animals and
acrobats, the whole being worked by a small steam engine that burned
alcohol for fuel. A little water put in the boiler of the toy
engine, a lighting of the alcohol wick and there would be a toy that
even a youngster of the United States might be proud to own.

"Mah land a massy!" exclaimed Eradicate as Tom got the apparatus
ready to work. "Dat shore will please him!"

"It ought to," replied the young inventor. "Come on, now I'm ready."

Delby had not yet come from the king's hut, and as Tom and his
friends, bearing the new toy, were about to leave the structure that
had been set aside for their use, they saw a crowd of the giant men
approaching. Each of the big men carried a club and a spear.

"Bless my eye glasses!" gasped Mr. Damon. "Something is wrong. What
can it be?"

He had his answer a moment later. With a firm but gentle motion the
chief giant shoved our four friends back into the hut, and then
pulled the grass mat over the opening. Then, as Tom and the others
could see by looking from a crack, he and several others took their
position in front, while other giants went to the various windows,
stationing themselves outside like sentries around a guard house.

"Bless my--" began Mr. Damon, but words failed him.

"We're prisoners!" gasped Ned.

"It looks like it," admitted Tom grimly. "Evidently Delby has
carried out his threat and set the king against us. We are to be
held captives here, and he can do as he pleases. Oh, why didn't I
think sooner."




CHAPTER XVIII

TOM'S MYSTERIOUS BOX


The young inventor walked slowly back to the middle of the hut--a
prison now it was--and sat down on a bench. The others followed his
example, and the elaborate toy, with which they had hoped to win the
king's favor, was laid aside. For a moment there was silence in the
structure--a silence broken only by the pacing up and down of the
giant guards outside. Then Eradicate spoke.

"Massa Tom," began the aged negro, "can't we git away from heah?"

"It doesn't seem so, Rad."

"Can't we shoot some of dem giants wif de 'lectric guns, an' carry a
couple ob 'em off after we stun 'em like?"

"No, Rad; I'm afraid violent measures won't do, though now that you
speak of the guns I think that we had better get them ready."

"You're not going to shoot any of them, are you, Tom?" asked Mr.
Damon quickly.

"No, but if they continue to turn against us as easily as they have,
there is no telling what may happen. If they attack us we will have
to defend ourselves. But I think they are too gentle for that,
unless they are unduly aroused by what misstatements Hank Delby may
make against us."

"Misstatements?" inquired Ned.

"Yes. I don't doubt but what he told the king a lot of stuff that
isn't true, to cause his majesty to make us captives here. Probably
he said we came to destroy the giant city with magic, or something
like that, and he represented himself as a simple traveler. He's
used to that sort of business, for he has often tried to get ahead
of Mr. Preston in securing freaks or valuable animals for the
circus. He wants to make it look bad for us, and good for himself.
So far he has succeeded. But I've got a plan."

"What is it?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I'll tell you when I've got it more worked out. The thing to do now
is to get in shape to stand off the giants if they should attack us.
This hut is pretty strong, and we can risk a siege in here. Let's
arrange the boxes and bales into a sort of breastwork, and then
we'll take the electric rifles inside."

This was soon done, and, though there was considerable noise
attending the moving about of the boxes and bales, the giant guards
did not seem at all alarmed. They did not even take the trouble to
stop the work, though they looked in the windows. In a short time
there was a sort of hollow square formed in the middle of the big
main room, and inside of this our friends could give battle.

"And now for my plan of teaching these giants a lesson," said Tom,
when this work was finished. "Ned, help me open this box," and he
indicated one with his initials on in red letters.

"That's the same one you saved from the fire in the ship," commented
Ned.

"Yes, and I can't put it to just exactly the use I intended, as the
situation has changed--for the worse I may say. But this box will
answer a good purpose," and Tom and Ned proceeded to open the
mysterious case which the young inventor had transported with such
care.

"Bless my cannon cracker!" exclaimed Mr. Damon who watched them.
"You're as careful of that as if it contained dynamite."

"It does contain something like that," answered Tom. "It has some
blasting powder in, and I was going to use it to show the giants how
little their strength would prevail against the power which the
white man could secure from some harmless looking powder. There are
also a lot of fireworks in the box, and I intend to use them to
scare these big men. That's why I was so afraid when I heard that
there was a blaze near my box. I was worried for fear the ship would
be blown up. But I can't use the blasting powder--at least not now.
But we'll give these giants an idea of what Fourth of July looks
like. Come on, Ned, we'll take a look and see from which window it
will be safest to set off the rockets and other things, as I don't
want to set fire to any of the grass huts."

Eradicate and Mr. Damon looked on wonderingly while Tom and his chum
got out the packages of fireworks which had been kept safe and dry.
As for the giant guards, if they saw through the windows what was
going on, they made no effort to stop Tom.

Tom had brought along a good collection of sky rockets, aerial
bombs, Roman candles and similar things, together with the blasting
powder. The latter was put in a safe place in a side room, and then,
with some boards, the young inventor and his chum proceeded to make
a sort of firing stand. One big window opened out toward a vacant
stretch of woods into which it would not be dangerous to aim the
fireworks.

Building the stand took some time, and they knocked off to make a
meal from the food that had been brought, and which they had been
about to eat when the circus man had appeared. The food was good,
and it made them feel better.

"I hope they won't forget us to-morrow," observed Tom, for there was
enough of the first meal left for supper. "But if they do we have
some food of our own."

"Oh, I don't think they mean to starve us," remarked Ned. "I think
they are just acting on suggestions from that circus man."

"Perhaps," agreed Tom. "Well, they may sing another tune when we get
through with them."

As night approached the giant guards about the hut were changed, and
again the women came, bearing platters of food. There was plenty of
it, showing that the king, however fickle his friendship might be,
did not intend to starve his captives. Tom and his friends had not
seen Delby come out of the royal palace, and they concluded that he
was still with his giant majesty.

"Is it dark enough now, Tom?" asked Ned of his chum, as they sat
about the rude wooden platform which they had made to hold the
fireworks. "Shall we set them off?"

"Pretty soon now. Wait until it gets a little darker, and the effect
will be better." The room was dimly lighted by a small portable
electric lamp, one of several Tom had brought along in his
mysterious box. The lamps were operated by miniature but powerful
dry batteries. The giant guards were still outside, but they showed
no disposition to interfere with our friends.

"There's something going on at the palace," reported Mr. Damon, who
was watching the big hut. "There are a lot of giants around it with
torches."

"Maybe they're going to escort Delby to a hut with the same honors
they paid us," suggested Tom. "If they do, we'll set off the
fireworks as he comes out and maybe they'll think he is afflicted
with bad magic, and they'll give us our freedom."

"Good idea!" cried Ned. "Say, that's what they're going to do," he
added a moment later as, in the glare of a number of torches, there
could be seen issuing from the king's palace, the two big giants,
evidently his brothers. Between them was the figure of the circus
man, looking like a dwarf. He was not so far away but what the smile
of triumph on his face could be seen as he glanced in the direction
of the darkened hut where Tom and his friends were captives.

"Now's our chance!" cried the young inventor. "Set 'em off, Ned. You
help, Mr. Damon. The more noise and fuss we make at once, the more
impressive it will be. Set off everything in sight!"

There was a flicker of matches as they were applied to the fuses,
and then a splutter of sparks. An instant later it seemed as if the
whole heavens had been lighted up.

Sky rockets shot screaming toward the zenith, aerial bombs went
whirling slantingly upward amid a shower of sparks, then to burst
with deafening reports, sending out string after string of colored
lights. Red and green fire gleamed, and the hot balls from Roman
candles burst forth. There was a whizz, a rush and a roar. Blinding
flashes and startling reports followed each other as Tom and his
friends set off the fireworks. It was like the Independence Day
celebration of some little country village, and to the simple giants
it must have seemed as if a volcano had suddenly gone into action.

For several minutes the din and racket, the glare and explosions,
kept up, pouring out of the big window of the hut. And then, as the
last of the display was shot off, and darkness seemed to settle down
blacker than ever over the giant village, there arose howls of fear
and terror from the big men and their women and children. They cried
aloud in their thunderous voices, and there was fear in every cry.




CHAPTER XIX

WEAK GIANTS


A great silence followed the setting off of the fireworks--silence
and darkness--and even the circus man ceased to shout. He wanted to
see what the effect would be. So did Tom and the others. When their
eyes had become used to the gloom again, after the glare of the
rockets and bombs, the young inventor said:

"Look out of the windows, Ned, and see if our guards have run away."

Ned did as requested, but for a few seconds he could make out
nothing. Then he cried out:

"They've gone, but they're coming back again, and there are twice as
many. I guess they don't want us to escape, Tom, for fear we may do
a lot of damage."

"Bless my hitching post!" cried Mr. Damon. "The guards doubled? We
ARE in a predicament, Tom."

"Yes, I'm afraid so. The fireworks didn't just have the effect I
expected. I thought they'd be glad to let us go, fearing that we
could work magic, and might turn it on them. Most of the natives are
deadly afraid of magic, the evil eye, witch doctors, and stuff like
that. But evidently we've impressed the giants in the wrong way. If
we could only speak their language now, we could explain that unless
they let us go we might destroy their village, though of course we
wouldn't do anything of the kind. If we could only speak their
language but we can't."

"Do you suppose they understood what Delby said?" asked Ned.

"Not a bit of it! He was just desperate when he yelled out that way.
He saw that we had an advantage on him--or at least I thought we
did, but I guess we didn't," and Tom gazed out of the windows in
front of each of which stood two of the largest giants. By means of
the torches it could be seen that the circus man was being taken to
another hut, some distance away from the royal one. Then, after an
awed silence, there broke out a confused talking and shouting among
the giant population, that was drawn up in a circle a respectful
distance from the hut where the captives were confined. Doubtless
they were discussing what had taken place, hoping and yet fearing,
that there might be more fireworks.

"Well, we might as well go to bed," declared Tom at length. "We
can't do any more to-night, and I'm dead tired. In the morning we
can talk over new plans. My box of tricks isn't exhausted yet."

In spite of their strange captivity our friends slept well, and they
did not awaken once during the night, for they had worked hard that
day, and were almost exhausted. In the morning they looked out and
saw guards still about the hut.

"Now for a good breakfast, and another try!" exclaimed Tom, as he
washed in a big earthen jar of water that had been provided.
Freshened by the cool liquid, they were made hungry for the meal
which was brought to them a little later. They noticed that the
women cooks looked at them with fear in their eyes, and did not
linger as they had done before. Instead they set down the trays of
food and hurried away.

"They're getting to be afraid of us," declared Tom. "If we could
only talk their language--"

"By Jove!" suddenly interrupted Ned. "I've just thought of
something. Jake Poddington you know--the agent for Mr. Preston who
so mysteriously disappeared."

"Well, what about him?" asked Tom. "Did you see him?"

"No, but he may be here--a captive like ourselves. If he is he's
been here long enough to have learned the language of the giants,
and if he could translate for us, we wouldn't have any trouble. Why
didn't we think of it before? If we could only find Mr. Poddington!"

"Yes, IF we only could," put in Tom. "But it's a slim chance. I
declare I've forgotten about him in the last few days, so many
things have happened. But what makes you think he is here, Ned?"

"Why he started for giant land, you'll remember, and he may have
reached here. Oh, if we could only find him, and save him and save
ourselves!"

"It would be great!" admitted Tom. "But I'm afraid we can't do it.
There's a chance, though, that Mr. Poddington may be here, or may
have been here. If we could only get out and make some explorations
or some inquiries. It's tough to be cooped up here like chickens."

Tom looked from the window, vainly hoping that the guards might have
been withdrawn. The giants were still before the windows and doors.

For a week this captivity was kept up, and in that time Tom and his
friends had occasional glimpses of Hank Delby going to and from the
king's hut. His majesty himself was not seen, but there appeared to
be considerable activity in the giant village.

From their prison-hut the captives could see the native market held
in the big open space, and giants from surrounding towns and the
open country came in to trade. There were also curious about the
white captives, and there was a constant throng around the big hut,
peering in. So also there was about the hut where the circus man had
his headquarters. Delby seemed to be free to come and go as he
choose.

"I guess he's laying his plans to take a giant or two away with
him," remarked Tom one day. "I wonder what will become of us, when
he does go?"

It was a momentous question, and no one could answer it. Tom was
doing some hard thinking those days. Two weeks passed and there was
no change. Our friends were still captives in giant land. They had
tried, by signs, to induce their guards to take some message to the
king, but the giants refused with shakes of their big heads.

Yet the adventurers could not complain of bad treatment. They were
well fed, and the guards seemed good natured, laughing among
themselves, and smiling whenever they saw any of the captives. But
let Tom or some of the others, step across the threshold of the
door, and they were kindly, but firmly, shoved back.

"It's of no use!" exclaimed Tom in despair one day, after a bold
attempt to walk out. "We've got to do something. If we can't get
word to the king we've got to plan some way to gain the friendship,
or work on the fear of the guards. We have about the same crowd
every time. If we can scare them they may keep far enough off so we
can have a chance to escape."

"Escape! That's the thing!" cried Mr. Damon. "Why can't we put the
airship together in this hut, Tom, and fly away in it?"

"We can, when the right time comes--if it ever does--but first we've
got to work on the guards. Let me see what I can do? Ha! I have it.
Ned, come here, I want your help. I'm going to show these giants
that, with all their strength, I can make each of them as weak as a
baby, and, at the same time prove that they can't lift even a light
weight."

"How you going to do it?" asked Mr. Damon.

"I'll soon show you. Come on, Ned."

Tom and his chum were busy for several days among the various boxes
and bales that formed the baggage. They rigged up two pieces of
apparatus which I will describe in due time. They also opened
several boxes of trinkets and trading goods, which had been brought
along for barter. These they distributed among the guards, and,
though the giants were immensely pleased, they did not get friendly
enough to walk off and leave our friends free to do as they pleased.

"Well, I guess we're ready for the lesson now," remarked Tom one
afternoon, when they had been held captives for about three weeks.
"If they won't respond to gentle treatment we'll try some other kind
of persuasion."

The guards had become so friendly of late that some of them often
spent part of the day inside the hut, looking at the curious things
Tom and his party had brought with them. This was just what the
young inventor wanted, as he was now ready to give them a second
lesson in white man's magic.

Tom and Ned had learned a few words of the giant's language, which
was quite simple, though it sounded hard, and one day, after he had
shown them simple toys, the young inventor brought forth a simple-looking
box, with two shining handles.

"Here is a little thing," explained Tom, partly by words, and partly
by using signs, "a simple little thing which, if one of you will but
take hold of, you cannot let go of again until I move my finger. Do
you believe that a small white man like myself can make this little
thing stronger than a giant?" he asked.

One of the biggest of the guards shook his head.

"Try," invited Tom. "Take hold of the handles. At first you will be
able to let go easily. But, when I shall move my finger though but a
little, you will be held fast. Then, another movement, and you will
be loose again. Can I do it?"

Once more the giant shook his head.

"Try," urged Tom, and he put the two shining handles into the big
palms of the giant. The native grinned and some of his companions
laughed. Then to show how easy it was he let go. He took hold again.

"Now!" cried Tom, and he moved his finger.

Instantly the giant leaped up into the air. He uttered a howl that
seemed to shake the very roof of the hut, and his arms were as rigid
as poles. They were drawn up in knots, and though he tried with all
his great might, he could not loose his fingers from the shiny
handles. He howled in terror, and his companions murmured in
amazement.

"It is as I told you!" exclaimed Tom. "Is it enough?"

"Loose me! Loose me! Loose me from the terrible magic!" cried the
giant, and, with a movement of his finger, Tom switched off the
current from the electric battery. Instantly the giant's arms
dropped to his side, his hands relaxed and the handles dropped
clattering to the floor.

With a look of fear, and a howl of anguish, the big guard fled, but
to the surprise and gratification of Tom and his friends the others
seemed only amused, and they nodded in a friendly fashion to the
captives. They all pressed forward to try the battery.

One and all endeavored to loose their hands after Tom, by a movement
of his forefinger, had turned the switch of the battery, and one and
all of the giant guards were unable to stir, as the electricity
gripped their muscles. They were evidently awed.

"This is working better than the fireworks did," murmured Tom. "Now
if I can only keep up the good work, and get ahead of Delby I'll be
all right. Now for the other test, Ned."

Ned brought from a box what looked to be a small iron bar, with a
large handle on the top. The bottom was ground very smooth.

"This is very small and light," explained Tom, partly by signs, and
partly by words. "I can easily lift it by one finger, and to a giant
it is but a feather's weight."

He let the giants handle it, and of course they could feel scarcely
any weight at all, for it tipped the scales at only a pound. But it
was shortly to be much heavier.

"See," went on the young inventor. "I place the weight on the floor,
and lift it easily. Can you do it?"

The giants laughed at such a simple trick. Tom set the iron bar down
and raised it several times. So did several of the giants.

"Now for the test!" cried Tom with a dramatic gesture. "I shall put
my magic upon you, and you shall all become as weak as babies. You
cannot lift the bar of iron!"

As he spoke he made a signal to Ned, who stood in a distant corner
of the room. Then Tom carefully placed the weight on a sheet of
white paper on a certain spot on the floor of the hut and motioned
to the largest giant to pick up the iron bar.

With a laugh of contempt and confidence, the big man stooped over
and grasped the handle. But he did not arise. Instead, the muscles
of his naked arm swelled out in great bunches.

"See, you are as a little babe!" taunted Tom. "Another may try!"

Another did, and another and another, until it came the turn of the
mightiest giant of all the guard that day. With a sudden wrench he
sought to lift the bar. He tugged and strained. He bent his back and
his legs; his shoulders heaved with the terrific effort he made--but
the bar still held to the floor of the hut as though a part of the
big beams themselves.

"Now!" cried Tom. "I shall show you how a white man's magic makes
him stronger than the biggest giant."

Once more he made a hidden sign to Ned, and then, stooping over, Tom
crooked his little finger in the handle of the iron bar and lifted
it as easily as if it was a feather.




CHAPTER XX

THE LONE CAPTIVE


The murmurs of astonishment that greeted Tom's seemingly marvelous
feat of strength was even greater than that which had marked his
trick with the electric battery. The giants stared at him as though
they feared the next moment he might suddenly turn upon them and
hurl them about like ten-pins.

"You see, it is easy when one knows the white man's magic," spoke
Tom, making many gestures to help along. "Go tell your king that it
is not well that he keeps us prisoners here, for if he does not soon
let us go the magic may break loose and destroy his palace!"

There was a gasp of dismay from the giants at this bold talk.

"Better go easy, Tom," counseled Ned.

"I'm tired of going easy," replied the young inventor. "Something
has got to happen pretty soon, or it will be all up with us. I'm
getting weary of being cooped up here. Not that the king doesn't
treat us well, but I don't want to be a prisoner. I want to get out
and see if we can't arrange to take a couple of these giants back
for Mr. Preston. That Delby sneak has things all his own way."

And this was so, for the circus man had poisoned the king's mind
against Tom and his friends, representing (as our hero learned
later) that the first arrivals in giant land were dangerous people,
and not to be trusted. On his own part, Hank Delby intimated that he
would always be a friend to the king, would teach him many of the
white man's secrets, and would make him powerful. Thus the circus
man was making plans for his own ends, and he was scheming to get a
couple of giants for himself, who he intended to hurry away, leaving
Tom and his friends to escape as best they could.

And Delby had brought with him some novelties in the way of toys and
machinery that seemed greatly to take the fancy of the king. Tom
realized this when he saw his rival free to come and go, and one
reason why our hero did the experiments just related was so that the
king might hear of them, and wonder.

"Go tell the king that, strong as he is, I am stronger," went on Tom
boldly to the giant guards. "I am not afraid of him."

"Bless my war club, Tom, aren't you a little rash to talk that way?"
asked Mr. Damon.

"No. As I said, I want things to happen. If I can only get the king
curious enough to come here I can show him things to open his eyes.
I'll work the miniature circus, and explain that some of his
subjects can take part in a real one if they will come with us. I
want to beat this Delby at his own game."

"That's the stuff!" cried Ned. "Stick to it, Tom. I'll help you, and
we'll get a giant or two yet. And maybe we can get some news of poor
Jake Poddington."

"I intend to make inquiries about him, now that these guards are a
little more friendly," said Tom. "It may be that he is a prisoner in
this very village."

The giant guards, now that they had gotten over their fright at
their own inability to raise the bar while Tom had lifted it with
one finger, again crowded around, asking that the trick be repeated.
Tom did it, with the same result.

None of the giants could move the iron, yet Tom had no difficulty in
doing so. Of course my readers have already guessed how the trick
was done. It was worked by a strong magnet, hidden in the floor. At
a signal from Tom, Ned would switch on the current. The iron would
be held fast and immovable, but when Tom himself went to raise it
Ned would cut off the electricity and the bar was lifted as easily
as an ordinary piece of iron. But simple as the trick was, it
impressed the giants. Then Tom did some other stunts for them,
simple experiments in physics, that every High School lad has done
in class.

"I want to get these guards friendly with me," he explained. "In
time the news will reach the king and he'll be so curious that he'll
come here and then--well, we'll see what will happen."

But this did not take place as soon as Tom desired. In fact, the
giants were very slow to act. The guards did get quite friendly, and
every day they wanted the same two first tricks performed over
again. Tom did them many times, wondering when the king would come.

Then he played a bold game, and made open inquiries about a white
man, one like the king's captives, who might have come to giant land
about a year previous.

"Is there a lone white captive here?" asked Tom.

The giant guard to whom he directed his question gave a start, for
Tom could now speak the language fairly well, and, after the first
indication of surprise, the guard muttered something to his
companions. There was a startled ejaculation, a curious glance at
the captives, and then--silence. The guards filed silently away,
and, a little later, could be seen going in the king's big hut.

"By Jove, Tom!" cried Ned. "You touched 'em that time. There's
something up, as sure as you're born!"

"I believe so myself," agreed the young inventor. "And now to throw
a real scare into these giants," he added, as he went to a distant
room of the hut where he had hidden some of the things he had taken
from his "box of tricks," as Ned dubbed it.

"Bless my necktie!" cried Mr. Damon. "What's up now, Tom."

"I'm going to show these giants that they'd better make friends with
us soon, or we may blow their whole town sky-high!" cried Tom. "I'm
going to use some of the blasting powder--just a pinch, so to speak--and
knock an empty hut into slivers. I think that will impress these
fellows. If I can only--"

"Look, Tom!" suddenly cried Ned. "The king's two brothers are coming
here. Something's up. He's sent some of the family to interview us.
Get ready to receive them."

"Couldn't be better!" cried the young inventor. "I've been waiting
for this. Now I'll give them a surprise party."

The two big brothers of the king, for such Tom and his friends had
recently learned was the relationship the giants on either side of
the "throne" bore to the ruler, were indeed headed toward the hut of
the captives. They came alone, in their royal garments of jaguar
skins, and, standing about the palace hut, could be seen the giant
guards who had doubtless carried the news of the question Tom had
asked.

"Come on, Ned, we've got to get busy!" exclaimed Tom. "Connect the
electric battery, and get that magnet in shape. I'm going to make a
fuse for this blasting powder bomb, and if I can get those royal
brothers to plant it for me, there'll be some high jinks soon."

Tom busied himself in making an improvised bomb, while Ned attended
to the electrical attachments, and Mr. Damon and Eradicate acted as
general assistants.

The two giant brothers entered the hut and greeted Tom and the
others calmly. Then they explained that the king had sent them to
investigate certain stories told by the guard.

"I'll show you!" exclaimed Tom, and he induced them to take hold of
the handles of the battery. The current was turned on full strength,
and from the manner in which the royal brothers writhed and howled
Tom judged that the experiment was a success.

"With all your strength you can not let go until I move my finger,"
the young inventor explained, and it was so. Even the skeptical
giants agreed on that.

"Now I shall show you that I am stronger than you!" exclaimed Tom,
and though the giants smiled incredulously so it was, for the magnet
trick worked as well as before. There were murmurs of surprise from
the two immense brothers, and they talked rapidly together.

"I will now show you that I can call the lightning from the sky to
do my bidding," went on Tom. "Is that possible to any of you
giants?"

"Never! Never! No man can do it!" cried Tola and Koku together.

"Then watch me!" invited Tom. "Is there an empty hut near here?" he
asked. "One that it will do no harm to destroy?"

Tola pointed to one visible from the window of the prison of our
friends.

"Then take this little ball, with the string attached to it, and
place it in the hut," went on Tom. "Then flee for your lives, for
standing from here, I shall call the lightning down, and you shall
see the hut destroyed."

"Why don't you ask them something about Jake Poddington?" asked Ned.

"Time enough for that after I've shown them what a little powder
will do, when I attach electric wires to it and press a button,"
replied Tom. "I've got that bomb fixed so it will go off by an
electric fuse. If they'll only put it in the hut for me. I'd do it
myself, only they won't let me go out."

The brothers conferred for a moment and then, seeming to arrive at a
decision, Koku, who was slightly the larger, took the bomb, looked
curiously at it, and walked with it toward the empty hut, the
electric wire being reeled out behind him by Tom.

The bomb was left inside the frail structure, the two brothers
hurried away, and, standing at a safe distance from the hut of the
captives, as well as the one that Tom had promised to destroy by
lightning, they waved their hands to show that they were ready.

"Bless my admission ticket!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "You've got quite
an audience, Tom."

And so he had, for there was a crowd in the market square, another
throng about the king's palace, while all about, hidden behind trees
or huts, was nearly the whole population of the giant town.

"That's what I want," said the young inventor. "It will be all the
more impressive."

"And there's the king himself!" exclaimed Ned. "He's standing in the
door of his royal hut."

"Better yet!" cried Tom. "Are those wires all connected, Ned?"

"Yes," answered his chum, after a quick inspection.

"Then here she goes!" cried Tom, as he pressed the button.

Instantly the hut, in which the bomb had been placed, arose in the
air. The roof was lifted off, the sides spread out and there was a
great flash of fire and a puff of smoke.

Then as the smoke cleared away Ned cried out:

"Look, Tom! Look! You've blown a hole in the hut next to the one you
destroyed!"

"Yes, and bless my check book!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "some one is
running out of it. A white man, Tom! A white man!"

"It's Poddington! Poor Jake Poddington. We've found him at last!
This way, Mr. Poddington! This way! Mr. Preston sent us to rescue
you!" cried Tom.




CHAPTER XXI

A ROYAL CONSPIRACY


Howls of terror, cries of anger, and a rushing to and fro on the
part of the giants, followed the latest trick of Tom Swift to
impress them with his power. But to all this the young inventor and
his friends paid no attention. Their eyes were fixed on the ragged
figure of the white man who was rushing toward their hut as fast as
his legs, manacled as they were, would let him.

"Come on! Come on!" cried Tom.

"Look out!" yelled Ned. "Some of the giants are after him, Tom!"

Several of the big men, after their first fright, had recovered
sufficiently to pursue the captive so strangely released by the
explosion.

"Hand me an electric rifle, Ned!" cried Tom.

"Bless my shoe laces!" cried Mr. Damon. "You're not going to kill
any of the giants; are you, Tom?"

"Well, I'm not going to let them capture Jake Poddington again," was
the quick answer, "but I guess if I stun a few of them with the
electric bullets that will answer."

Poddington (for later the white captive did prove to be the missing
circus man) ran on, and close behind him came two of the giants,
taking long strides. Tom aimed his electric rifle at the foremost
and pulled the trigger. There was no sound, but the big man crumpled
up and fell, rolling over and over. With a yell of rage his
companion pressed on, but a moment later, he, too, went down, and
then the others, who had started in pursuit of their recent captive,
turned back.

"I thought that would fix 'em," murmured Tom gleefully.

In another five seconds Poddington was inside the hut, gasping from
his run. He was very thin and pale, and the sudden exertion had been
too much for him.

"Water--water!" he gasped, and Mr. Damon gave him some. He sank on
one of the skin-covered benches, and his half-exhausted breath
slowly came back to him.

"Boys," he gasped. "I don't know who you are, but thank heaven you
came just in time. I couldn't have stood it much longer. I heard you
yell something about Preston. Is it possible he sent you to find
me?"

"Partly that and partly to get a giant," explained Tom. "We didn't
know you were in that hut, or we'd never have blown up the one next
to it, though we suspected you might be held captive somewhere
around here, from the queer way the giants acted when we asked about
you."

"And so you blew up that hut?" remarked the circus agent. "I thought
it was struck by lightning. But it did me a good turn. I was chained
to the wall of the hut next door, and your explosion split the beam
to which my chains were fastened. I didn't lose any time running
out, I can tell you. Oh, but it's good to be free once more and to
see someone my own size!"

"How did you get here, and why did they keep you a prisoner?" asked
Tom. Then Poddington told his story, while Ned and Mr. Damon aided
Tom in filing off the rude iron shackles from his wrists and ankles.

As Mr. Preston had heard, Jake Poddington had started for giant
land. But he lost his way, his escort of natives deserted him, just
as Tom's did, and he wandered on in the jungle, nearly dying. Then,
merely by accident, he came upon giant land, but he had the
misfortune to incur the anger of the big men who took him for an
enemy. They at once made him a prisoner, and had kept him so ever
since, though they did not harm him otherwise, and gave him good
food.

"I think they were a bit afraid of me in spite of my small size,"
explained the circus man. "I never thought to be rescued, for,
though I figured that Mr. Preston might hear of my plight, he could
never find this place. How did you get here?"

Then Tom told his story, and of how they themselves were held
captives because of the treachery of Hank Delby.

"That's just like him!" cried Poddington. "He was always mean, and
always trying to get the advantage of his rivals. But I'm glad I'm
with you. With what stuff you have here it oughtn't to be difficult
to get away from giant land."

"But I want a giant," insisted Tom. "I told Mr. Preston I'd bring
him back one, and I'm going to do it."

"You can't!" cried the circus man. "They won't come with you, and
it's almost impossible to make a prisoner of one. You'd better
escape. I want to get away from giant land. I've had enough."

"We'll get away," said Tom confidently, "and we'll have a giant or
two when we go."

"You'll have some before you go I guess!" suddenly interrupted Ned.
"There's a whole crowd of 'em headed this way, and they've got
clubs, bows and arrows and those blow guns! I guess they're going to
besiege us."

"All right!" cried Tom. "If they want to fight we can give 'em as
good as they send. Ned, you and Mr. Damon and I will handle the
electric rifles. Eradicate, use your shotgun, and fire high. We
don't want to hurt any of the big men. We'll merely stun them with
the electric bullets, but the noise of Rad's gun will help some."

"What can I do?" asked Mr. Poddington.

"You're too weak to do much," replied Tom. "You just keep on the
lookout, and tell us if they try any surprises. I guess we can
handle 'em all right."

With shouts and yells the big men came on. Evidently their
indifference toward their captives had turned to anger because of
the freeing of Poddington, and now they were determined to use harsh
measures. They advanced with wild yells, brandishing their clubs and
other weapons, while the weird sound of the tom-toms and natives
drums added to the din.

When a short distance from the hut the giants stopped, and began
firing arrows and darts from the blow guns.

"Look out for those!" warned Tom. "They probably are poisoned, and a
scratch may mean death. Give 'em a few shots now, Ned and Mr. Damon!
Rad, give 'em a salute, but fire high!"

"Dat's what I will, Massa Tom!"

The gun of the colored man barked out a noisy welcome, and, at the
same time three giants fell, stunned by the electric bullets, for
the rifles were adjusted to send out only mild charges.

Thrice they charged, and each time they were driven back, and then,
finding that the captives were ever ready for them, they gave up the
attempt to overwhelm them, and hurried away, many going into the
king's hut. His royal majesty did not show himself during the fight.

"Well, I guess they won't try that right away again," remarked Tom,
as he saw the stunned giants slowly arouse themselves and crawl
away. "We've taught them a lesson."

They felt better after that, and then, when they had eaten and
drank, they began to consider ways and means of escape. But Tom
would not hear of going until he could get at least one giant for
the circus.

"But you can't!" insisted Mr. Poddington.

"Well, it's too soon to give up yet," declared Tom. "I'd like to
take the king's two brothers with me."

"By Jove!" exclaimed Mr. Poddington, "I never thought of that. There
is just a bare chance. Did you know that the two brothers, who are
twins, dislike the king, for he is younger than they, and he
practically took the throne away from them. They should rule jointly
by rights. If we could enlist Tola and Koku on our side we might win
out yet."

"Then we'll try!" exclaimed Tom.

Jake Poddington, who had been a captive in the giant city long
enough to know something of its history, and had learned to talk the
language, explained how Kosk had usurped the throne. His brothers
were subject to him, he said, but several times they had tried in
vain to start a revolution. To punish them for their rebellious
efforts the king made them his personal servants, and this explained
why he sent them to see the tricks Tom performed.

"If we could only get into communication with the big twins," went
on the circus man, "we could offer to take them with us to a country
where they would be bigger kings than their brother is here. It's a
royal conspiracy worth trying."

"Then we'll try it!" cried Tom enthusiastically.




CHAPTER XXII

THE TWIN GIANTS


Daring indeed was the scheme decided on by the captives, and yet its
very boldness might make it possible for them to carry it out. The
king would never suspect them of plotting to carry off his two royal
brothers, and this made it all the easier to lay their plans. In
this they were much helped by Poddington, who knew the language and
who had made a few friends among the more humble people of the
village, though none dared assist him openly.

"The first thing to do," said the circus man, "is to get into
communication with the twins."

That proved harder than they expected, for a week passed, and they
did not have a glimpse of Tola and Koku. Meanwhile the giant guard
was still maintained about the hut night and day. No more food was
given the prisoners, and they would have starved had not Tom
possessed a good supply of his own provisions. It was evidently the
intention of the king to starve his captives into submission.

"Suppose you do get those big brothers to accompany you, Tom?" asked
Ned one day. "How are you going to manage to get away, and take them
with you?"

"My aeroplane!" answered Tom quickly. "I've got it all planned out.
You and I with Mr. Damon, Mr. Poddington and Eradicate will skip
away in the aeroplane. We can put it together in here, and I've got
enough gasolene to run it a couple of hundred miles if necessary."

"But the giants--you can't carry them in it."

"No, and I'm not going to try. If they'll agree to go they can set
off through the woods afoot. We'll meet them in a certain place--where
there's a good land mark which we can easily distinguish from the
aeroplane. We'll take what stuff we can with us, and leave the rest
here. Oh, it can be done, Ned."

"But when you start out with the aeroplane they'll make a rush and
overwhelm us."

"No, for I'll do it so quickly that they won't have a chance. I'm
going to saw through the beams of one side of this hut. To the rear
there is level ground that will make a fine starting place. When
everything is ready, say some night, we'll pull the side wall down,
start the aeroplane out as it falls, and sail away. Then we'll pick
up the giant brothers out in the woods, and travel to civilization
again."

"By Jove! I believe that will work!" cried the circus man.

"Bless my corn plaster, I think so myself!" added Mr. Damon.

"But first we've got to get the brothers to agree," went on Tom,
"and that is going to be hard work."

It was not so difficult as it was tedious. Through an aged woman,
with whom he had made friends when a captive, Jake Poddington
managed to get word to the royal twins that he and the other
captives would like to see them privately. Then they had to wait for
an answer.

In the meanwhile the giants tried several times to surprise Tom and
his friends by attacks, but the captives were on the alert, and the
electric rifles drove them back.

One night nearly all the guards were observed to be absent. There
were not more than half a dozen scattered about the hut.

"I wonder what that means?" asked Tom, who was puzzled.

"I know!" exclaimed Jake Poddington after a moment's thought. "It's
their big annual feast. Even the king goes to it. They were just
getting over it when I struck here last year, and maybe that's what
set them so against me. Boys, this may be our chance!"

"How?" asked Ned.

"The king's brothers may find an opportunity to come and talk to us
when the feast is at its height," was the reply.

Anxiously they waited, and in order that the royal brothers might
come in unobserved, if they did conclude to speak to the captives,
Tom and his companions hung some pieces of canvas over the windows
and doors, and had only a single light burning.

It was at midnight that a cautious knock sounded at the side of the
hut and Tom glided to the main door. In the shadows he saw the two
royal brothers, Tola and Koku.

"Here they are!" whispered Tom to Jake Poddington, who came forward.

"Come!" invited the circus man in the giants' tongue, and the
brothers entered the hut.

How Jake persuaded them to throw in their fortunes with the captives
the circus man hardly knew himself. Perhaps it was due as much as
anything to the dislike they felt toward the king, and the mean way
he had treated them.

"Come, and you will be kings among the small men in our country,"
invited Poddington. The brothers looked at each other, talked
together in low tones, and then Koku exclaimed:

"We will come, and we will help you to escape. We have spoken, and
we will talk with you again."

Then they glided out into the darkness, while from afar came the
sounds of revelry at the big feast.




CHAPTER XXIII

A SURPRISE IN THE NIGHT


Tom and his friends could scarcely believe their good fortune. It
seemed incredible that they should have induced two of the biggest
giants to accompany them back, and, not only that, but that they had
the promise of the strong men to aid them.

"Now we must get busy," declared Tom, when their visitors had gone.
"We've got lots of work to do on the aeroplane, and we must try out
the engine. Then we've got to fix the side of the hut so it will
fall out when we're ready for it. And we've got to plan how to meet
the giants later in the forest."

"Yes," agreed the circus man, "and we must take care that Hank Delby
doesn't spoil our plans."

Then ensued busy days. In the seclusion of their hut the prisoners
could work undisturbed at the aeroplane, which had been almost
assembled.

The engine was installed and tried, and, when the motor began its
thundering explosions, there was consternation among the giants, who
had again surrounded the hut to see that the prisoners did not
escape.

Meanwhile Delby seemed to be unusually active. He could be observed
going in and out from his hut to that of the king, and he often
carried large bundles.

"He's making himself solid with his royal highness," declared Tom.
"Well, if all goes right, we won't have to worry much longer about
what he does."

"If only those twin giants don't fail us," put in Ned.

"Oh, you can depend on them," said Mr. Poddington. "These giants are
curious creatures, but once they give their word they stick to it."

He told much about the strange big men, confirming Tom's theory that
favorable natural conditions, for a number of generations, had
caused ordinary South American natives to develope into such large
specimens.

Our friends were under quite a nervous tension, for they could not
be sure of what would happen from day to day. They continued to work
on the aeroplane, and then, finding that it would work in the
seclusion of the hut, they were anxious for the time to come when
they could try it in the open.

"Do you think it will carry the five of us with safety?" asked the
circus man, as he gazed rather dubiously at the somewhat frail-appearing
affair.

"Sure!" exclaimed Tom. "We'll get away all right if I can get enough
of a start. Now we must see to opening the side of the hut."

This work had to be done cautiously, yet the prisoners had a certain
freedom, for the guards were afraid to approach too closely.

The supporting and cross beams were sawed through, for Tom had
brought a number of carpenter tools along with him. Then, in the
silence of the night, the two royal brothers brought other beams
that could be put in place temporarily to hold up the roof when the
others were pulled out to allow the aeroplane to rush forth.

In due time all was in readiness for the attempt to escape. The
royal twins had agreed to slip off at a certain signal, and await
Tom and his party in the forest at the foot of a very large hill,
that was a landmark for miles around. The giants could travel fast,
but not as fast as the aeroplane, so it was planned that they were
to have a day and night's start. They would take along food, and
would arrange to have a number of Tom's mules hidden in the woods,
so that our hero and his friends would have means of transportation
back to the coast, after they had ended their flight in the airship.

"I wish we had brought along the larger one, so we could take the
giants with us," said Tom, "but I guess they're strong enough to
walk to the coast. We'll take what provisions we can carry, our
electric rifles, and the rest of the things we'll leave here for the
king, though he doesn't deserve them."

"What do you think Delby will do?" asked Ned.

"Give it up. He's got some plan though. I only hope he doesn't get a
giant. Then ours will be a greater attraction."

Several days passed, and the last of the preparations had been made.

"The giant twins will pretend to go off on a hunting trip to-morrow
morning," said the circus man one night, "but they won't come back.
They'll wait for us at the big hill."

"Then we must escape the following morning," decided Tom. "Well, I'm
ready for it."

From their hut, surrounded as it was still by the giant guards, our
friends watched the royal brothers start off, seemingly on a hunting
expedition.

The day passed slowly. Tom went carefully over the aeroplane, to see
that it was in shape for a quick flight, and he looked to the wall
of the hut--the wall that was to be pulled from place to afford
egress for the air craft.

They went to bed early that night--the night they hoped would be
their last in giant land. It must have been about midnight when Tom
suddenly awoke. He thought he heard a noise outside the hut and in a
moment he had jumped up.

"Repel boarders!" cried Tom.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE AIRSHIP FLIGHT


For a few moments there was confusion inside the hut that was to be
the last stronghold of our friends against the approaching force of
giants. Confusion and not a little fear were mingled, for Tom's
words sent a chill to every heart. Then, after the first panic,
there came a calmer feeling--a feeling that each one would do his
duty in the face of danger and, if he had to die, he would die
fighting.

"Everyone take a window!" yelled Tom. "Don't kill any one if you can
help it. Shoot to disable, Rad. Mr. Poddington, there's an extra
shotgun somewhere about! See if you can find it. We'll use the
electric rifles. Get those Roman candles somebody!"

Tom was like a general giving orders, and once his friends realized
that he was managing things they felt more confidence. Ned grasped
his electric rifle, as did Mr. Damon, and they stood ready to use
them.

"The strongest stunning charge!" ordered the young inventor.
"Something that will lay 'em out for a good while. We'll teach 'em a
lesson!"

BANG!

That was Eradicate's shotgun going off. It had a double load in it,
and the wonder of it was that the barrel did not burst. It sounded
like a small cannon, but it had the good effect of checking the
first rush of giants, for the electric rifles had not yet been
adjusted, and Mr. Poddington, in the light of the single electric
torch that had been left burning, could find neither the spare
shotgun nor the Roman candles.

BANG!

Eradicate let the other barrel go, almost in the faces of the
advancing giants, but over their heads, for he bore in mind Tom's
words not to injure.

"That's the stuff!" cried Tom. "Come on now, Ned, we're ready for
'em!"

But the giants had retreated, and could be seen standing in groups
about the hut, evidently planning what to do next. Then from back in
the village there shone a glare of light.

"Bless my insurance policy! It's a fire!" cried Mr. Damon. "They're
going to burn us out!"

"Jove! If they do!" exclaimed Ned.

"We mustn't let 'em!" shouted Tom. "Fire, Ned!"

Together the chums discharged their electric rifles at the enemy and
a number of them fell, stunned, and were carried away by their
companions.

The glaring light approached and now it could be seen that it was
caused by a number of the big men carrying torches of some kind of
blazing wood. It did look as though they intended to fire the prison
hut.

"Give 'em another taste of it!" shouted Ned, and this time the three
electric rifles shot out their streaks of blue flame, for Mr. Damon
had his in action. It was still dark in the hut, for to set aglow
more of the electric torches meant that Tom and his friends would be
exposed to view, and would be the targets for the arrows, or darts
from the deadly blow guns.

Several more of the giants toppled over, and then began a retreat to
some distance, the first squad of fighters going to meet the men who
had come up with the torches. There was no sign of women or
children.

"Shall we fire again?" asked Ned.

"No," answered Tom. "Save your ammunition until they are closer, and
we'll be surer of our marks. Besides, if they let us alone that's
all we ask. We don't want to hurt 'em."

"Bless my gizzard!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I wonder why they attacked
us, anyhow?"

"Maybe it's about the two giant brothers who have not come back,"
suggested Mr. Poddington. "They may imagine that we have them
captive, and they want to rescue them."

"That's so," admitted Tom. "Well, if they had only postponed this
reception for a few hours we'd have been out of their way, and they
wouldn't have had this trouble," and he glanced at the aeroplane,
that stood in the big hut, ready for instant flight.

"They're coming back!" suddenly shouted Ned, and a look from the
half-opened windows showed the giants again advancing.

"I've got the Roman candles!" called Mr. Poddington from a corner
where he had been rummaging in that box of Tom's which contained so
many surprises. "What shall I do with 'em?"

"Let 'em go right in their faces!" yelled Tom. "They won't do much
damage, but they'll throw a scare into the big fellows! Get ready,
Ned!"

"They're dividing!" shouted his chum. "They're coming at us from two
sides!"

"They're only trying to confuse us," decided Tom. "Fire at the main
body!" And with that he opened up with his electric rifle, an
example followed by Mr. Damon and Ned.

With a whizz, and several sharp explosions, the circus man got the
Roman candles into action. The glaring fire of them lighted up the
scene better than did the flaming torches of the giants, and truly
it was a wonderful sight. There, in that lonely hut, in the midst of
a South American jungle, four intrepid white persons, and an aged
but brave negro, stood against hundreds of giants--mighty men, who,
had they come to a personal contact, any one of which would have
been more than a match for the combined strength of Tom and his
party. It was a weird picture that the young inventor looked out
upon, but his heart did not quail.

Giant after giant went down under the fierce rain of the electric
bullets, stunned, but not otherwise injured. There was a shower of
sparks, and a hail of burning balls from the Roman candles, but
still the advance was kept up. Eradicate was banging away with his
shotgun.

"Dis suah am hot work!" cried the colored man, as his hand came in
contact with the barrel. "Wow! It's most RED hot!" he added with a
cry of pain.

"Use the other gun," advised Tom, never turning his head from the
window through which he was aiming. "That one may get choked, and
explode in here."

"All right," answered Eradicate.

"Duck!" yelled Ned with sudden energy. "They're going to fire!" A
number of the giants could be seen fitting arrows to bow strings,
while others raised to their lips the long hollow reeds, from which
the blow guns were made. It was the first time the enemy had fired
and doubtless they had held back because they hoped to capture Tom
and his friends alive. But they did not count on such a stubborn
resistance.

Every one moved away from the windows, and not an instant too soon,
for, a moment later, a shower of arrows and darts came in,
fortunately injuring no one.

Then, above the shouting and yelling of the giants, whose deep, bass
voices had a terrorizing effect, there came the din of the tom-toms,
making a weird combination of sound.

"We've got 'em on the run again!" cried Ned, and so it proved, for
the larger body of giants, who had approached the hut from the front
and two sides, were running back.

"Guess they've given it up," exclaimed Tom. "I'm glad of it, too,
for--"

He paused and glanced behind him. A tiny spurt of flame at the base
of the rear wall of the hut had caught his eye. Instantly the flame
grew larger, and a puff of smoke followed.

"Fire!" cried Ned. "We're on fire!"

"Bless my water bucket!" gasped Mr. Damon. "They've set fire to the
hut!"

It was but too true. While Tom and the others had been standing off
the giants in front, a smaller force had crept around to the rear,
and set the inflamable side of the hut ablaze.

Desperately Tom looked around. There was no means at hand of
fighting fire. Hardly a bucket of water was in the place, and the
structure was filled with quick-burning stuff, while the fireworks
that remained, and the blasting powder, made it doubly dangerous.
Then Tom's eyes lighted on the big aeroplane, ready for instant
service.

"That's it!" he cried suddenly. "It's our only hope, and the last
one! Come on, everybody! Down with that wall! Pull on the ropes and
it will come! We've got to go now. In another minute it will be too
late. Climb up, Mr. Poddington, Mr. Damon, Ned, and I will start the
machine."

"The wall first! The wall!" cried Ned.

"Sure," answered Tom. He and his friends grasped the two ropes that
had been attached to the key-beams in the structure. It had been so
arranged that when the supports were pulled out the wall would fall
outward, making a fairly smooth and level gangplank, on which the
aeroplane could rush from the hut.

There was a creaking of timbers, a straining of ropes, and then,
with a crash, the wall fell. Instantly there was a yell of surprise
from the giants, and a brighter glare from the torches, as those
carrying them rushed up to see what had happened. The din of the
tom-toms was well-nigh deafening. Fortunately the enemy forgot to
take advantage of the opening and pour in a flight of arrows or
darts.

"Start the motor!" cried Tom to his chum.

There was a rattling, banging noise, like a salvo of small arms, and
the big propellers revolved with incredible swiftness. The two white
men were already in place, and now Eradicate, still carrying his
shotgun, clambered up.

"Up with you, Ned!" yelled Tom. "I'm going to head her around and
make a flying start."




CHAPTER XXV

TOM'S GIANT--CONCLUSION


"I don't see anything of them, do you?"

"No, and yet this is the place where they said they'd meet us."

It was Tom who asked the question, and Ned who answered it. It was
the day after their sensational escape from the giants' prison, and
they were circling about in the aeroplane which had been the means
of getting them away from giant land. For they were safely away from
that strange and terrible place, and they were now seeking the two
giant brothers who had promised to meet them at a certain big hill.

For an hour that night Tom and his friends had traveled on the wings
of the Lark and when a rising moon showed them a level spot for a
landing, they had gone down and made a camp. They had provisions
with them, and plenty of blankets and it was so warm that more
shelter was not necessary.

The next day, leaving Mr. Damon, Eradicate and the circus man in the
temporary camp, Tom and Ned had gone aloft to see if they could pick
up the giant twins, who were to meet them and have some mules ready
for the journey back to civilization.

"Well, we're in no great hurry," went on Tom, after vainly scanning
the ground below. "They may not have traveled as fast as we thought
they could, and the mules may have given trouble. We'll stick around
here a day or so, and--"

"Look!" suddenly exclaimed Ned. "Didn't you see something moving
then."

"Where?"

"By that big dead tree."

Tom took a look through a pair of field glasses, while Ned steered
the aeroplane. Then the young inventor cried:

"It's all right. It's one of the giants, but I can't tell which one.
Ned, I believe they're hiding because they're afraid of us. They've
never seen an aeroplane in action before. I'm going down."

Quickly and gracefully the Lark was volplaned to a level place near
the dead tree. No one was in sight, and Tom, after looking about,
called:

"Tola! Koku! Where are you? It is I, Tom Swift! We have escaped!
Where are you? Don't be afraid!"

There was a moment's silence, and then two big forms rushed from the
dense bushes, one of them--Koku--advancing to Tom, and catching him
up in what was meant for a loving hug.

"Oh, I say now, Koku!" cried the young inventor, with a laugh. "I've
got ribs, you know. Easy on that squeeze!"

The two giant twins laughed too, and they were immensely pleased to
see their friends again, both talking at once and so fast that not
even the circus man could catch what they said.

"Have you got the mules?" asked Tom, for he knew that much depended
on the animals. "Is everything all right?"

"All right," answered Koku, the talk being conducted in the language
of the giants of which Tom was now fairly a master when it was
spoken slowly. Then the brothers explained that they had gotten
safely away, had gathered up the mules, and with a supply of food,
had hidden the beasts in a nearby valley. The giant twins were
waiting for Tom to arrive, but, though they had seen the aeroplanes
in the hut they had no idea that it could fly so nearly like a bird,
and when they saw it hovering over them they had become frightened,
and hidden, until Tom's voice had reassured them.

"Well, get the animals," advised Tom, after he had told of the fight
of the night before, and the escape. "I'll go find the others and
we'll start from here. Then we'll hike for the United States as fast
as we can."

Mr. Damon, Eradicate and the circus man were soon brought to the
place where the giant brothers had made their camp, and it was
decided to remain there a few days until the aeroplane could be
taken apart for transportation, for Tom had no idea of abandoning
it. Of course it could not be packed up very well, as there were no
boxes or bales at hand. But it was made small enough so that the
parts could be slung across the backs of several mules, there being
a number of the pack animals available, some being the same ones Tom
had purchased after his native escort had deserted him.

It was the morning they had decided to begin their march for the
coast. Everything was in readiness, they had some food, and with the
shotguns and the electric rifles which they had brought along, they
could get game. All their other things, save a few necessaries, had
been left behind. Eradicate, as he had always done, rode his mule up
beside Tom, to look after his young master.

Suddenly Koku, who seemed to have become very fond of Tom, strode
forward and took his place on the other side of the mule ridden by
the young inventor.

"Me stay by you," he said with a grin on his big face. "Me like you!
Me take care of you, Tom--be your servant. Him too old," and he
motioned to Eradicate.

"Eh! What's dat yo' done said?" gasped the colored man. "Me too old?
Looky heah, giant man, I'd hab yo' know dat I's been in de Swift
fambly a good many years, an' I's jest as spry as I eber was. I kin
look after Massa Tom as good as eber. Now yo' git back where yo'
belongs, giant man, an' doan't let me heah no mo' ob dat foolishness
talk. Nobody waits on Massa Tom Swift but me. Does yo' heah dat,
giant man?"

"Me Tom's man!" exclaimed the big fellow, and in fairly good
English. Tom laughed. He had no idea the giant had picked up any
words.

"Go on away!" cried Eradicate.

Koku gave the colored man one look, then, with a good natured grin
on his face, he reached over one hand, calmly lifted Eradicate from
his mule and set him on the ground. Then, with a push, he shoved the
mule galloping ahead, and took his place at the side of the young
inventor.

"Well, what do you know about that?" gasped Ned.

"Bless my coffee cup!" cried Mr. Damon.

Eradicate stood still for a moment, gazing first at his master and
then at the big being who had so ruthlessly plucked him from the
mule's back, as easily as he would have lifted a child. Then
Eradicate, with a trace of tears in his eyes, stretched forth his
hands toward Tom, and turned aside. That was too much for our hero.

With one leap he was off his animal, and the next minute he had his
arms around the faithful old colored man.

"By Jove, Rad!" cried Tom, and his own eyes were not dry. "I'm not
going to be deserted by you in that way. You're just the same as
ever to me, giant or no giant, and don't you forget it!" and he
patted the old man on the back affectionately.

"Praise de Lord fo' heahin' yo' say dat, Massa Tom," gasped
Eradicate. "Praise de dear Lord!"

And then, knowing that he still held a place in his young master's
heart, the colored man was content. And from then on he rode on one
side of Tom, while the giant, Koku, strode along on the other. He
had established himself as Tom's bodyguard and even though Eradicate
insisted on remaining, Koku would not go away.

"I guess I'll have to keep 'em both," said Tom, with a grin, "but
I'm going to change Koku's name."

"What are you going to call him?" asked Ned.

"Let's see, what month is this?"

"August," said Mr. Damon.

"Then August is his name!" exclaimed Tom. "Koku sounds too much like
a cocoanut cake. Here, August, shift that package on the white
mule," he called, "it's cutting her back," and the giant, with a
pleased grin, did as he was bid. And August he was called from then
on.

But my story is getting too long, so I must bring it to a close. And
really there is not much to tell. The march back to the coast was
full of hardships, danger and difficulties, but they accomplished
it. The two giants seemed glad that they had left their own country
behind and they were simple and affectionate beings. Tom made up his
mind he would let the circus man have one and keep the other for his
personal attendant.

They traveled by day, and slept at night, shooting game as they
needed it. Several times they narrowly escaped getting mixed up in
the native conflicts. Tom had one striking evidence of his giant
servant's usefulness. One day he was stalking a small beast, like a
deer, when, from a tree overhead, a jaguar sprang down at him. But
Koku--I beg his pardon--August was at hand, and, like Sampson of
old, the giant slew the beast bare-handed, choking it to death.

In fine time our friends reached a native town and the wonder caused
by the giants was no less than the amusement of the big men at the
things they saw. They wondered more when they got to a city, and saw
more marvels of the white man's progress.

Then Tom and his friends reached the coast, and took a steamer for
New York. The giants created a great sensation, the more when it was
known that Tom intended to keep one for himself. With this
arrangement Mr. Preston agreed, for he only wanted one as an
attraction.

"Couldn't have done it better myself!" the circus proprietor said to
Tom when he heard the story, and this was high praise from Mr.
Preston.

"And you rescued old Jake, too! Well, well! Couldn't have done it
better myself! I really couldn't!"

"I wonder how our old enemy Delby made out?" asked Mr. Poddington.
They heard later that he was driven from giant land, not even being
allowed to take a boy as a specimen. He had worked on the "tip" Andy
Foger had given Mr. Waydell, but it failed. When Tom escaped, the
king confiscated all the things in the hut, and he was so taken up
with the novelties that he paid no more attention to the circus
agent, who had all his trouble, plotting and scheming against Tom
for his pains.

"A giant in the house!" cried Mrs. Baggert, when Tom got home with
August. "I never heard of such a thing in all my life! Where will he
sleep? Not a bed is big enough!"

"We'll give him two beds then," laughed Tom.

And so they did, and August was immensely pleased with his new life.
He proved to be very useful, and readily adapted himself to
civilized ways.

Tola, the other giant, made a big sensation when exhibited, and Mr.
Preston said he was well worth the fifteen thousand dollars he had
cost.

"Well, Tom, what next?" asked Ned one day, when they had been home
several weeks and had told their story over and over again.

"No where!" exclaimed Tom. "I'm going to take a long rest."

But Tom Swift wasn't that kind of a young man, and he was soon
active again. If you care to learn more of his doings you may do so
in the next volume of this series, to be called, "Tom Swift and His
Electric Camera; Or Thrilling Adventures While Taking Moving
Pictures."

And now, for a time, we will take leave of the young inventor and
his new giant servant, to meet them again a little later.

THE END



TOM SWIFT AND HIS WIZARD CAMERA

or

Thrilling Adventures While Taking Moving Pictures


by

VICTOR APPLETON




CONTENTS

CHAPTER


     I  A STRANGE OFFER
    II  A MAN IN THE SNOW BANK
   III  TOM MAKES UP HIS MIND
    IV  HELD FAST
     V  TOM GETS A WARNING
    VI  TRYING THE CAMERA
   VII  WHAT THE CAMERA CAUGHT
  VIII  PHOTOS FROM THE AIRSHIP
    IX  OFF FOR INDIA
     X  UNEXPECTED EXCITEMENT
    XI  AN ELEPHANT STAMPEDE
   XII  THE LION FIGHT
  XIII  A SHOT IN TIME
   XIV  IN A GREAT GALE
    XV  SNAPPING AN AVALANCHE
   XVI  TELEGRAPH ORDERS
  XVII  SUSPICIOUS STRANGERS
 XVIII  THE NATIVE BATTLE
   XIX  A HEAVY LOSS
    XX  AFTER THE ENGLISHMEN
   XXI  THE JUNGLE FIRE
  XXII  A DANGEROUS COMMISSION
 XXIII  AT THE VOLCANO
  XXIV  THE MOLTEN RIM
   XXV  THE EARTHQUAKE--CONCLUSION




TOM SWIFT AND HIS WIZARD CAMERA


CHAPTER I

A STRANGE OFFER


"Some one to see you, Mr. Tom."

It was Koku, or August, as he was sometimes called, the new giant
servant of Tom Swift, who made this announcement to the young inventor.

"Who is it, Koku?" inquired Tom, looking up from his work-bench in the
machine shop, where he was busy over a part of the motor for his new
noiseless airship. "Any one I know? Is it the 'Blessing Man?'" for so
Koku had come to call Mr. Damon, an eccentric friend of Tom's.

"No, not him. A strange man. I never see before. He say he got quick
business."

"Quick business; eh? I guess you mean important, Koku," for this
gigantic man, one of a pair that Tom had brought with him after his
captivity in "Giant Land," as he called it, could not speak English
very well, as yet. "Important business; eh, Koku?  Did he send in his
card?"

"No, Mr. Tom. Him say he have no card. You not know him, but he very
much what you call--recited."

"Excited I guess you mean, Koku. Well, tell him to wait a few minutes,
and I'll see him. You can show him in then. But I say, Koku," and Tom
paused as he looked at the big man, who had attached himself to our
hero, as a sort of personal helper and bodyguard.

"Yes, Mr. Tom; what is it?"

"Don't let him go poking around the shop. He might look at some of my
machines that I haven't got fully patented yet. Is he in the front
office?"

"That's where him am. He be lookin' at pictures on the walls."

"Oh, that's all right then. Just keep him there. And, Koku, don't let
him come back in the shop here, until I get ready to see him. I'll ring
the bell when I am."

"All right, Mr. Tom."

Koku, very proud of his mission of keeping guard over the strange
visitor, marched from the room with his big strides, his long arms and
powerful hands swinging at his sides, for Koku, or August, as Tom had
rechristened him, and as he often called him (for it was in the month
of August that he had located the giants) was a very powerful man. A
veritable giant, being extremely tall, and big in proportion.

"Be sure. Don't let him in here, Koku!" called Tom, in an additional
warning, as his new servant left the main shop.

"Sure not!" exclaimed Koku, very earnestly.

"I don't know who he may be," mused Tom, as he began putting away the
parts to his new noiseless motor, so that the stranger could not see
them, and profit thereby. "It looks rather funny, not sending in his
name. It may be some one who thinks he can spring a trick on me, and
get some points about my inventions, or dad's.

"It may even be somebody sent on by Andy Foger, or his father.  I can't
be too careful. I'll just put everything away that isn't fully covered
by patents, and then if he wants to infringe on any of the machines I
can sue him."

Tom looked about the shop, which was filled with strange machinery,
most of which had been made by himself, or his father, or under their
combined directions. There was a big biplane in one corner, a small
monoplane in another, parts of a submarine boat hanging up overhead,
and a small, but very powerful, electric auto waiting to have some
repairs made to it, for on his last trip in it Tom Swift had suffered a
slight accident.

"There, I guess he can't see anything but what I want him to," mused
Tom, as he put away the last part of a new kind of motor, from which he
hoped great things. "Let's see, yes, it's out of sight now. I wish Ned
Newton, or Mr. Damon were here to be a witness in case he starts
anything. But then I have Koku, even if he doesn't speak much English
yet. If it comes to blows--well, I wouldn't want that giant to hit me,"
finished Tom with a laugh, as he rang the bell to announce to his
servant that the visitor might be shown in.

There was a sound outside the door that separated the business office
from the main shop, and Tom heard Koku exclaim:

"Hold on! Wait! I go first. You wait!"

"What's the matter with me going ahead?" demanded a quick, snappy
voice. "I'm in a hurry, and--"

"You wait! I go first," was the giant's reply, and then came the sound
of a scuffle.

"Ouch! Say! Hold on there, my man! Take your hand off my shoulder!
You're crushing me with those big fingers of yours!"

This was evidently the visitor remonstrating with the giant.

"Humph! I guess Koku must have grabbed him," said Tom softly.  "I don't
like that sort of a visitor. What's his hurry getting in here?" and our
hero looked about, to see if he had a weapon at hand in case of an
attack. Often cranks had forced their way into his shop, with pet
inventions which they wanted him to perfect after they had themselves
failed. Tom saw a heavy iron bar at hand, and knew this would serve to
protect him.

"You come after me!" exclaimed Koku, when the voice of the other had
ceased. "Do you stand under me?"

"Oh, yes, I understand all right. I'll keep back. But I didn't mean
anything. I'm just in a hurry to see Tom Swift, that is all.  I'm
always in a hurry in fact. I've lost nearly a thousand dollars this
morning, just by this delay. I want to see Mr. Swift at once; and have
a talk with him."

"Another crank, I guess," mused Tom. "Well, I'm not going to waste much
time on him."

A moment later the door opened, and into the shop stepped Koku,
followed by a short, stout, fussy little man, wearing a flaming red
tie, but otherwise his clothes were not remarkable.

"Is this Mr. Tom Swift?" asked the stranger, as he advanced and held
out his hand to the young man.

"Yes," answered Tom, looking carefully at the visitor. He did not seem
to be dangerous, he had no weapon, and, Tom was relieved to note that
he did not carry some absurd machine, or appliance, that he had made,
hoping to get help in completing it. The youth was trying to remember
if he had ever seen the stranger before, but came to the conclusion
that he had not.

"Sorry to take up your time," went on the man, "but I just had to see
you. No one else will do. I've heard lots about you. That was a great
stunt you pulled off, getting those giants for the circus. This is one;
isn't he?" and he nodded toward Koku.

"Yes," replied Tom, wondering if the little man was in such a hurry why
he did not get down to business.

"I thought so," the caller went on, as he shook hands with Tom.  "Once
you felt his grip you'd know he was a giant, even if you didn't see
him. Yes, that was a great stunt. And going to the caves of ice, too,
and that diamond-making affair. All of 'em great. I--"

"How did you know about them?" interrupted Tom, wishing the man would
tell his errand.

"Oh, you're better known than you have any idea of, Tom Swift.  As soon
as I got this idea of mine I said right away, to some of the others in
my business, I says, says I, 'Tom Swift is the boy for us. I'll get him
to undertake this work, and then it will be done to the Queen's taste.
Tom's the boy who can do it,' I says, and they all agreed with me. So I
came here to-day, and I'm sorry I had to wait to see you, for I'm the
busiest man in the world, I believe, and, as I said, I've lost about a
thousand dollars waiting to have a talk with you. I--"

"I am sorry," interrupted Tom, and he was not very cordial.  "But I was
busy, and--"

"All right! All right! Don't apologize!" broke in the man in rapid
tones, while both Tom, and his servant, Koku, looked in surprise at the
quick flow of language that came from him. "Don't apologize for the
world. It's my fault for bothering you. And I'll lose several thousand
dollars, willingly, if you'll undertake this job. I'll make money from
it as it is. It's worth ten thousand dollars to you, I should say, and
I'm willing to pay that."

He looked about, as though for a seat, and Tom, apologizing for his
neglect in offering one, shoved a box forward.

"We don't have chairs in here," said the young inventor with a smile.
"Now if you will tell me what you--"

"I'm coming right to it. I'll get down to business in a moment,"
interrupted the man as he sat down on the box, not without a grunt or
two, for he was very stout. "I'm going to introduce myself in just a
second, and then I'm going to tell you who I am. And I hope you'll take
up my offer, though it may seem a strange one."

The man took out a pocketbook, and began searching through it,
evidently for some card or paper.

"He's as odd as Mr. Damon is, when he's blessing everything," mused
Tom, as he watched the man.

"I thought I had a card with me, but I haven't," the visitor went on.
"No matter. I'm James Period--promoter of all kinds of amusement
enterprises, from a merry-go-'round to a theatrical performance. I want
you to--"

"No more going after giants," interrupted. Tom. "It's too dangerous,
and I haven't time--"

"No, it has nothing to do with giants," spoke Mr. Period, as he glanced
up at Koku, who towered over him as he sat on the box near Tom.

"Well?" returned Tom.

"This is something entirely new. It has never been done before, though
if you should happen to be able to get a picture of giants don't miss
the opportunity."

"Get a picture?" exclaimed Tom, wondering if, after all, his visitor
might not be a little insane.

"Pictures, yes. Listen. I'm James Period. Jim, if you like it better,
or just plain 'Spotty.' That's what most of my friends call me. Get the
idea? A period is a spot. I'm a Period, therefor I'm a spot. But that
isn't the real reason. It's because I'm always Johnny on the Spot when
anything is happening. If it's a big boxing exhibition, I'm there. If
it's a coronation, I'm there, or some of my men are. If it's a Durbar
in India, you'll find Spotty on the spot. That's me. If there's going
to be a building blown up with dynamite--I'm on hand; or some of my
men.  If there's a fire I get there as soon as the engines do--if it's
a big one. Always on the spot--that's me--James Period--Spotty for
short. Do you get me?" and he drew a long breath and looked at Tom, his
head on one side.

"I understand that you are--"

"In the moving picture business," interrupted Mr. Period, who never
seemed to let Tom finish a sentence. "I'm the biggest moving picture
man in the world--not in size, but in business. I make all the best
films. You've seen some of 'em I guess. Every one of 'em has my picture
on the end of the film. Shows up great.  Advertising scheme--get me?"

"Yes," replied Tom, as he recalled that he had seen some of the films
in question, and good ones they were too. "I see your point, but--"

"You want to know why I come to you; don't you?" again interrupted
"Spotty," with a laugh. "Well, I'll tell you. I need you in my
business. I want you to invent a new kind of moving picture camera. A
small light one--worked by electricity--a regular wizard camera. I want
you to take it up in an airship with you, and then go to all sorts of
wild and strange countries, Africa, India--the jungles--get pictures of
wild animals at peace and fighting--herds of elephants--get scenes of
native wars--earthquakes--eruptions of volcanoes--all the newest and
most wonderful pictures you can. You'll have to make a new kind of
camera to do it. The kind we use won't do the trick.

"Now do you get me? I'm going to give you ten thousand dollars, above
all your expenses, for some films such as I've been speaking of. I want
novelty. Got to have it in my business! You can do it. Now will you?"

"I hardly think--" began Tom.

"Don't answer me now," broke in Mr. Period. "Take four minutes to think
it over. Or even five. I guess I can wait that long.  Take five
minutes. I'll wait while you make up your mind, but I know you'll do
it. Five minutes--no more," and hastily getting up off the box Mr.
Period began impatiently pacing up and down the shop.




CHAPTER II

A MAN IN THE SNOW BANK


Tom Swift looked somewhat in surprise at his strange visitor.  It had
all happened so suddenly, the offer had been such a strange one, the
man himself--Mr. Period--was so odd, that our hero hardly knew what to
think. The moving picture agent continued pacing up and down the room
now and then looking at his watch as if to note when the five minutes
had passed.

"No," said Tom to himself. "I'm not going to take this offer.  There's
too much work and risk attached to it. I want to stay at home and work
on my noiseless motor for the airship. After that--well--I don't know
what I'll do. I'll tell Mr. Period that he needn't wait the five
minutes. My mind is made up now!"

But as Tom was about to make this announcement, and dismiss his caller,
he looked again at the visitor. There was something attractive about
him--about his hasty way of talking, about his manner of interrupting,
about the way he proposed matters. Tom was interested in spite of
himself.

"Well," he reflected, "I may as well wait until the five minutes are
up, anyhow."

Koku, the giant servant, glanced at his young master, as if to ask if
there was anything that he could do. Tom shook his head, and then the
big man strolled over to the other side of the machine shop, at the
same time keeping a careful eye on Mr. Period.

While Tom is waiting for the time to expire, I will take a few minutes
to tell you something more about him. Those of my friends who have read
the previous books in this series need no introduction to my hero, but
those who may chance upon this as their first book in the Tom Swift
series, will like to be more formally introduced.

Tom, whose mother had been dead some years, lived with his father,
Barton Swift, in the town of Shopton. Mr. Swift was an inventor of
prominence, and his son was fast following in his footsteps. A Mrs.
Baggert kept house for the Swifts, and another member of the household
was Eradicate Sampson, an aged colored man, who said he used to
"eradicate" the dirt. He had been with Tom on many trips, but of late
was getting old and feeble. Then there was Garret Jackson, an engineer
employed by the Swifts.  These were all the immediate members of the
household.

Tom had a chum, Ned Newton, who used to work in a bank, and there was a
girl, Mary Nestor, a daughter of Amos Nestor, in which young lady Tom
was much interested.

Eradicate Sampson had a mule, Boomerang, of whom he thought almost as
much as he did of Tom. Eradicate was a faithful friend and servant,
but, of late, Koku, or August, the giant, had rather supplanted him. I
must not forget Mr. Wakefield Damon, of Waterfield, a village near
Shopton. Mr. Damon was an odd man, always blessing everything. He and
Tom were good friends, and had been on many trips together.

The first book of the series was called "Tom Swift and His
Motor-Cycle," and related how Tom bought the cycle from Mr. Damon,
after the latter had met with an accident on it, and it was in this way
that our hero became acquainted with the odd man.

Tom had many adventures on his motor-cycle, and, later on he secured a
motor-boat, in which he beat his enemy, Andy Foger, in a race. Next Tom
built an airship, and in this he went on a wonderful trip. Returning
from this he and his father heard about a treasure sunken under the
ocean. In his submarine boat Tom secured the valuables, and made a
large sum for himself.

In his electric runabout, which was the swiftest car on the road, Tom
was able to save from ruin a bank in which his father was interested,
and, a short time after that, he went on a trip in an airship, with a
man who had invented a new kind. The airship was smashed, and fell to
Earthquake Island, where there were some refugees from a shipwreck,
among them being the parents of Mary Nestor. In the volume called "Tom
Swift and His Wireless Message," I told how he saved these people.

When Tom went among the diamond makers he had more strange adventures,
on that trip discovering the secret of phantom mountain. He had bad
luck when he went to the caves of ice, for there his airship was
wrecked.

When Tom made the trip in his sky racer he broke all records for an
aerial flight, incidentally saving his father's life. It was some time
after this when he invented an electric rifle, and went to elephant
land, to rescue some missionaries from the red pygmies.

The eleventh volume of the series is called "Tom Swift in the Land of
Gold," and relates his adventures underground, while the next one tells
of a new machine he invented--an air-glider--which he used to save the
exiles of Siberia, incidentally, on that trip, finding a valuable
deposit of platinum.

As I have said, it was on his trip to giant land that Tom got his big
servant. This book, the thirteenth of the series, is called "Tom Swift
in Captivity," for the giants captured him and his friends, and it was
only by means of their airship that they made their daring escape.

Tom had been back from the strange land some time now. One giant he had
turned over to the circus representative for whom he had undertaken the
mission, and the other he retained to work around his shop, as
Eradicate was getting too old. It was now winter, and there had been
quite a fall of snow the day before Mr. Period, the odd moving picture
man, called on Tom. There were many big drifts outside the building.

Tom had fitted up a well-equipped shop, where he and his father worked
on their inventions. Occasionally Ned Newton, or Mr. Damon, would come
over to help them, but of late Tom had been so busy on his noiseless
motor that he had not had time to even see his friends.

"Well, I guess the five minutes have passed, and my mind is made up,"
thought Tom, as he looked at his watch. "I might as well tell Mr.
Period that I can't undertake his commission. In the first place it
isn't going to be an easy matter to make an electric moving picture
camera. I'd have to spend a lot of time studying up the subject, and
then I might not be able to get it to work right.

"And, again, I can't spare the time to go to all sorts of wild and
impossible places to get the pictures. It's all well enough to talk
about getting moving pictures of natives in battle, or wild beasts
fighting, or volcanoes in action, but it isn't so easy to do it. Then,
too, I'd have to make some changes in my airship if I went on that
trip. No, I can't go. I'll tell him he'll have to find some one else."

Mr. Period pulled out his watch, opened it quickly, snapped it shut
again, and exclaimed:

"Well, how about it, Tom Swift? When can you start! The sooner the
better for me! You'll want some money for expenses I think. I brought
my check book along, also a fountain pen. I'll give you a thousand
dollars now, for I know making an electric moving picture camera isn't
going to be cheap work. Then, when you get ready to start off in your
airship, you'll need more money. I'll be Johnny-on-the-spot all right,
and have it ready for you. Now when do you think you can start?"

He sat down at a bench, and began filling out a check.

"Hold on!" cried Tom, amused in spite of himself. "Don't sign that
check, Mr. Period. I'm not going."

"Not going?" The man's face showed blank amazement.

"No," went on Tom. "I can't spare the time. I'm sorry, but you'll have
to get some one else."

"Some one else? But who can I get?"

"Why, there are plenty who would be glad of the chance."

"But they can't invent an electric moving picture camera, and, if they
could, they wouldn't know enough to take pictures with it. It's got to
be you or no one, Tom Swift. Look here, I'll make it fifteen thousand
dollars above expenses."

"No, I'm sorry, but I can't go. My work here keeps me too busy.

"Oh, pshaw! Now, look here, Tom Swift! Do you know who sent me to see
you?"

"It was Mr. Nestor, who has a daughter named Mary, I believe.  Mr.
Nestor is one of the directors in our company, and one day, when he
told me about you sending a wireless message from Earthquake Island, I
knew you would be the very man for me. So now you see you'll be doing
Mr. Nestor a favor, as well as me, if you go on this trip."

Tom was somewhat surprised, yet he realized that Mr. Period was
speaking the truth. Mr. Nestor was identified with many new
enterprises. Yet the youth was firm.

"I really can't go," said our hero. "I'd like to, but I can't.  I'd
like to oblige Mr. Nestor, for--well, for more reasons than one," and
Tom blushed slightly. "But it is out of the question. I really can't
go."

"But you must!" insisted the camera man. "I won't take 'no' for an
answer. You've got to go, Tom Swift, do you hear that? You've go to go?"

Mr. Period was apparently very much excited. He strode over to Tom and
smote his hands together to emphasize what he said. Then he shook his
finger at Tom, to impress the importance of the matter on our hero.

"You've just got to go!" he cried. "You're the only one who can help
me, Tom. Do go! I'll pay you well, and--oh, well, I know you don't need
the money, exactly, but--say, you've got to go!"

In his earnestness Mr. Period laid his hand on Tom's arm. The next
instant something happened.

With a few big strides Koku was beside the picture man. With great
quickness he grasped Mr. Period by the coat collar, lifted him off his
feet with one hand, and walked over to a window with him, easily
lifting him above the floor.

With one fling the giant tossed the short, stout gentleman out into a
snow bank, while Tom looked on, too surprised to do anything, even if
he had had the chance.

"There. You touch Tom Swift again, and I sit on you and keep you under
snow!" cried the giant, while Mr. Period kicked and squirmed about in
the drift, as Tom made a leap forward to help him out.




CHAPTER III

TOM MAKES UP HIS MIND


"Great Scott!" yelled the picture man. "What in the world happened to
me? Did I get kicked by that mule Boomerang of Eradicate's, that I've
heard so much about? Or was it an earthquake, such as I want to get a
picture of? What happened?"

He was still floundering about in the deep bank of snow that was just
outside the window. Fortunately the sash had been up, and Koku had
tossed Mr. Period through the open window.  Otherwise, had there been
glass, the well-meaning, but unreasoning giant would probably have
thrown his victim through that, and he might have been badly cut. Tom
had the window open for fresh air, as it was rather close in the shop.

"Why, Koku!" exclaimed the young inventor, as he leaned out of the
window, and extended his hand to the moving picture man to help him out
of the drift. "What do you mean by that? Have you gone crazy?"

"No, but no one shall lay hands on my master!" declared the giant half
savagely. "I have vowed to always protect you from danger, in return
for what you did for me. I saw this man lay his hand on you. In another
moment he might have killed you, had not Koku been here. There is no
danger when I am by," and he stretched out his huge arms, and looked
ferocious. "I have turned over that man, your enemy!" he added.

"Yes, you overturned me all right," admitted Mr. Period, as he got to
his feet, and crawled in through the window to the shop again. "I went
head over heels. I'm glad it was clean snow, and not a mud bank, Tom.
What in the world is the matter with him?"

"I guess he thought you were going to harm me," said Tom in a low
voice, as the picture man came in the shop. "Koku is very devoted to
me, and sometimes he makes trouble," the youth went on. "But he means
it all for the best. I am very sorry for what happened," and Tom aided
Mr. Period in brushing the snow off his garments. "Koku, you must beg
the pardon of this gentleman," Tom directed.

"What for?" the giant wanted to know.

"For throwing him into the snow. It is not allowed to do such things in
this country, even though it is in Giant Land. Beg his pardon.

"I shall not," said the giant calmly, for Tom had taught him to speak
fairly good English, though sometimes he got his words backwards.

"The man was about to kill you, and I stopped him--I will stop him once
more, though if he does not like the snow, I can throw him somewhere
else."

"No! No! You must not do it!" cried Tom. "He meant no harm. He is my
friend."

"I am glad to hear you say that," exclaimed the picture man. "I have
hopes that you will do what I want."

"He your friend?" asked Koku wonderingly.

"Certainly; and you must beg his pardon for what you did," insisted Tom.

"Very well. I am glad you did not hurt yourself," said the giant, and
with that "apology" he stalked out of the room, his feelings evidently
very much disturbed.

"Ha! Ha!" laughed Mr. Period. "I guess he can't see any one but you,
Tom. But never mind. I know he didn't mean anything, and, as I'm none
the worse I'll forgive him. My necktie isn't spotted; is it?"

"No, the snow didn't seem to do that any harm," replied the young
inventor, as he looked at the brilliant piece of red silk around Mr.
Period's collar.

"I am very particular about my neckties," went on the picture man. "I
always wear one color. My friends never forget me then."

Tom wondered how they could ever forget him, even though he wore no
tie, for his figure and face were such as to not easily be forgotten.

"I'm glad it's not soiled," went on "Spotty" as he liked to be called.
"Now, Tom, you said you were my friend. Prove it by accepting my offer.
Build that wizard camera, and get me some moving pictures that will be
a sensation. Say you will!"

He looked appealingly at Tom, and, remembering the rather rude and
unexpected treatment to which Koku had submitted the gentleman, Tom
felt his mind changing. Still he was not yet ready to give in. He
rather liked the idea the more he thought of it, but he felt that he
had other duties, and much to occupy him at home, especially if he
perfected his silent motor.

"Will you go?" asked Mr. Period, picking up his fountain pen and check
book, that he had laid aside when he walked over to Tom, just before
the giant grasped him. "Say you will."

The young inventor was silent a moment. He thought over the many
adventures he had gone through--in the caves of ice, in the city of
gold, escaping from the giants, and the red pygmies--He went over the
details of his trips through the air, of the dangers under the seas, of
those he had escaped from on Earthquake Island. Surely he was entitled
to a little rest at home.

And yet there was a lure to it all. A certain fascination that was hard
to resist. Mr. Period must have seen what was going on in Tom's mind,
for he said:

"I know you're going. I can see it. Why, it will be just the very thing
you need. You'll get more fame out of this thing than from any of your
other inventions. Come, say you'll do it.

"I'll tell you what I'll do!" he went on eagerly. "After you make the
camera, and take a lot of films, showing strange and wonderful scenes,
I'll put at the end of each film, next to my picture, your name, and a
statement showing that you took the originals. How's that? Talk about
being advertised! Why you can't beat it! Millions of people will read
your name at the picture shows every night."

"I am not looking for advertisements," said Tom, with a laugh.

"Well, then, think of the benefit you will be to science," went on Mr.
Period quickly. "Think of the few people who have seen wild animals as
they are, of those who have ever seen an earthquake, or a volcano in
action. You can go to Japan, and get pictures of earthquakes. They have
them on tap there. And as for volcanoes, why the Andes mountains are
full of 'em. Think of how many people will be thankful to you for
showing them these wonderful scenes."

"And think of what might happen if I should take a tumble into a crack
in the earth, or down a hot volcano, or fall into a jungle when there
was a fight on among the elephants," suggested Tom. "My airship might
take a notion to go down when I was doing the photographing," he added.

"No. Nothing like that will happen to Tom Swift," was the confident
answer of the picture man. "I've read of your doings.  You don't have
accidents that you can't get the better of. But come, I know you're
thinking of it, and I'm sure you'll go. Let me make you out this check,
sign a contract which I have all ready, and then get to work on the
camera."

Tom was silent a moment. Then he said:

"Well, I admit that there is something attractive about it. I hoped I
was going to stay home for a long time. But--"

"Then you'll go!" cried Mr. Period eagerly. "Here's the money," and he
quickly filled out a check for Tom's first expenses, holding the slip
of paper toward the young inventor.

"Wait a minute! Hold on!" cried Tom. "Not so fast if you please. I
haven't yet made up my mind."

"But you will; won't you?" asked Mr. Period.

"Well, I'll make up my mind, one way or the other," replied the young
man. "I won't say I'll go, but--"

"I'll tell you what I'll do!" interrupted Mr. Period. "I'm a busy man,
and every second is worth money to me. But I'll wait for you to make up
your mind. I'll give you until to-morrow night. How's that? Fair, isn't
it?"

"Yes--I think so. I am afraid--"

"I'm not!" broke in the picture man. "I know you'll decide to go. Think
of the fun and excitement you'll have. Now I've taken up a lot of your
time, and I'm going to leave you alone. I'll be back tomorrow evening
for my answer. But I know you're going to get those moving pictures for
me. Is that giant of yours anywhere about?" he asked, as he looked
cautiously around before leaving the shop. "I don't want to fall into
his hands again."

"I don't blame you," agreed Tom. "I never knew him to act that way
before. But I'll go to the gate with you, and Koku will behave himself.
I am sorry--"

"Don't mention it!" broke in the picture man. "It was worth all I
suffered, if you go, and I know you will. Don't trouble yourself to
come out. I can find my way, and if your giant comes after me, I'll
call for help."

He hurried out before Tom could follow, and, hearing the gate click a
little later, and no call for help coming, our hero concluded that his
visitor had gotten safely away.

"Well, what am I going to do about it?" mused Tom, as he resumed work
on his silent motor. He had not been long engaged in readjusting some
of the valves, when he was again interrupted.

This time it was his chum, Ned Newton, who entered, and, as Ned was
well known to the giant, nothing happened.

"Well, what's up, Tom?" asked Ned.

"Why, did you notice anything unusual?" asked Tom.

"I saw Koku standing at the gate a while ago, looking down the road at
a short stout man, with a red tie. Your giant seemed rather excited
about something."

"Oh, yes. I'll tell you about it," and Tom related the details of Mr.
Period's visit.

"Are you going to take his offer?" asked Ned.

"I've got until tomorrow to make up my mind. What would you do, Ned?"

"Why, I'd take it in a minute, if I knew how to make an electric
camera. I suppose it has to be a very speedy one, to take the kind of
pictures he wants. Wait, hold on, I've just thought of a joke. It must
be a swift camera--catch on--you're Swift, and you make a swift camera;
see the point?"

"I do," confessed Tom, with a laugh. "Well, Ned, I've been thinking it
over, but I can't decide right away. I will tomorrow night, though."

"Then I'm coming over, and hear what it is. If you decide to go, maybe
you'll take me along."

"I certainly will, and Mr. Damon, too."

"How about the giant?"

"Well, I guess there'll be room for him. But I haven't decided yet.
Hand me that wrench over there; will you," and then Tom and Ned began
talking about the new apparatus on which the young inventor was working.

True to his promise Mr. Period called the next evening. He found Tom,
Ned and Mr. Swift in the library, talking over various matters.

"Well, Tom, have you made up your mind?" asked the caller, when Mrs.
Baggert, the housekeeper, had shown him into the room. "I hope you
have, and I hope it is favorable to me."

"Yes," said Tom slowly, "I've thought it all over, and I have decided
that I will--"

At that moment there was a loud shouting outside the house, and the
sound of some one running rapidly through the garden that was just
outside the low library window--a garden now buried deep under snow.

"What's that?" cried Ned, jumping to his feet.

"That was Koku's voice," replied Tom, "and I guess he was chasing after
some one."

"They'll need help if that giant gets hold of them," spoke Mr. Period
solemnly, while the noise outside increased in volume.




CHAPTER IV

HELD FAST


"Here, Tom! Come back! Where are you going?" cried aged Mr. Swift, as
his son started toward the window.

"I'm going to see what's up, and who it is that Koku is chasing,"
replied the young inventor.

As he spoke he opened the window, which went all the way down to the
floor. He stepped out on a small balcony, put his hand on the railing,
and was about to leap over. Back of him was his father, Mr. Period and
Ned.

"Come back! You may get hurt!" urged Mr. Swift. He had aged rapidly in
the last few months, and had been obliged to give up most of his
inventive work. Naturally, he was very nervous about his son.

"Don't worry, dad," replied the youth. "I'm not in much danger when
Koku is around."

"That's right," agreed the moving picture man. "I'd sooner have that
giant look after me than half a dozen policemen."

The noise had now grown fainter, but the sound of the pursuit could
still be heard. Koku was shouting in his hearty tones, and there was
the noise of breaking twigs as the chase wound in and out of the garden
shrubbery.

Tom paused a moment, to let his eyes get somewhat used to the darkness.
There was a crescent moon, that gave a little light, and the snow on
the ground made it possible to notice objects fairly well.

"See anything?" asked Ned, as he joined his chum on the balcony.

"No, but I'm going to have a closer look. Here goes!" and Tom leaped to
the ground.

"I'm with you," added Ned, as he followed.

Then came another voice, shouting:

"Dat's de way! Catch him! I'se comm', I is! Ef we gits him we'll tie
him up, an' let Boomerang walk on him!"

"Here comes Eradicate," announced Tom, with a look back toward his
chum, and a moment later the aged colored man, who had evidently
started on the chase with Koku, but who had been left far behind, swung
totteringly around the corner of the house.

"Did ye cotch him, Massa Tom?" asked Eradicate. "Did ye cotch de
raskil?"

"Not yet, Rad. But Koku is after him. Who was he, and what did he do?"

"Didn't do nuffin yit, Massa Tom, 'case as how he didn't git no
chance," replied the colored man, as he hurried along as rapidly as he
could beside the two youths. "Koku and I was too quick for him. Koku
an' me was a-sittin' in my shack, sort of talkin' togedder, when we
hears a racket neah de chicken house. I'se mighty partial t' de
chickens, an' I didn't want nobody t' 'sturb 'em. Koku was jes' de
same, an' when we hears dat noise, up we jumps, an' gits t' chasm.' He
runned dis way, an' us was arter him, but land lub yo', ole Eradicate
ain't so spry as he uster be an' Koku an' de chicken thief got ahead ob
me. Leastwise he ain't no chicken thief yit, 'case as how he didn't git
in de coop, but he meant t' be one, jes' de same."

"Are you sure he was after the chickens?" asked Tom, with quick
suspicion in his mind, for, several times of late, unscrupulous persons
had tried to enter his shop, to get knowledge of his valuable
inventions before they were patented.

"Course he were arter de chickens," replied Eradicate. "But he didn't
git none."

"Come on, Ned!" cried Tom, breaking into a run. "I want to catch
whoever this was. Did you see him, Rad?"

"Only jes' had a glimpse ob his back."

"Well, you go back to the house and tell father and Mr. Period about
it. Ned and I will go on with Koku. I hope to get the fellow."

"Why, Tom?" asked his chum.

"Because I think he was after bigger game than chickens. My noiseless
motor, for the new airship, is nearly complete, and it may have been
some one trying to get that. I received an offer from a concern the
other day, who wished to purchase it, and, when I refused to sell, they
seemed rather put out."

The two lads raced on, while Eradicate tottered back to the house,
where he found Mr. Swift and the picture man awaiting him.

"I guess he got away," remarked Ned, after he and his chum had covered
nearly the length of the big garden.

"I'm afraid so," agreed Tom. "I can't hear Koku any more.  Still, I'm
not going to give up."

Pantingly they ran on, and, a little later, they met the big man coming
back.

"Did he get away?" asked Tom.

"Yes, Mr. Tom, he scaped me all right."

"Escaped you mean, Koku. Well, never mind. You did your best."

"I would like to have hold of him," spoke the giant, as he stretched
out his big arms.

"Did you know who he was?" inquired Ned.

"No, I couldn't see his face," and he gave the same description of the
affair as had Eradicate.

"Was it a full grown man, or some one about my size?" Tom wanted to
know.

"A man," replied the giant.

"Why do you ask that?" inquired Ned, as the big fellow went on to
resume his talk with Eradicate, and the two chums turned to go into the
house, after the fruitless chase.

"Because, I thought it might be Andy Foger," was Tom's reply.  "It
would be just like him, but if it was a man, it couldn't be him. Andy's
rather short."

"Besides, he doesn't live here any more," said Ned.

"I know, but I heard Sam Snedecker, who used to be pretty thick with
him, saying the other day that he expected a visit from Andy. I hope he
doesn't come back to Shopton, even for a day, for he always tries to
make trouble for me. Well, let's go in, and tell 'em all about our
chase after a chicken thief."

"And so he got away?" remarked Mr. Swift, when Tom had completed his
story.

"Yes," answered the young inventor, as he closed, and locked, the low
library window, for there was a chilly breeze blowing. "I think I will
have to rig up the burglar alarm on my shop again. I don't want to take
any chances."

"Do you remember what we were talking about, when that interruption
came?" asked Mr. Period, after a pause. "You were saying, Tom, that you
had made up your mind, and that was as far as you got. What is your
answer to my offer?"

"Well," spoke the lad slowly, and with a smile, "I think I will--"

"Now don't say 'no'"; interrupted the picture man. "If you are going to
say 'no' take five minutes more, or even ten, and think it over
carefully. I want you--"

"I wasn't going to say 'no,'" replied Tom. "I have decided to accept
your offer, and I'll get right at work on the electrical camera, and
see what I can do in the way of getting moving pictures for you."

"You will? Say, that's great! That's fine! I knew you would accept, but
I was the least bit afraid you might not, without more urging."

"Of course," began Tom, "it will take--"

"Not another word. Just wait a minute," interrupted Mr. Period in his
breezy fashion. "Take this."

He quickly filled out a check and handed it to Tom.

"Now sign this contract, which merely says that you will do your best
to get pictures for me, and that you won't do it for any other concern,
and everything will be all right. Sign there," he added, pointing to a
dotted line, and thrusting a fountain pen into Tom's hand. The lad read
over the agreement, which was fair enough, and signed it, and Ned
affixed his name as a witness.

"Now when can you go?" asked Mr. Period eagerly.

"Not before Spring, I'm afraid," replied Torn. "I have first to make
the camera, and then my airship needs overhauling if I am to go on such
long trips as will be necessary in case I am to get views of wild
beasts in the jungle."

"Well, make it as soon as you can," begged Mr. Period. "I can have the
films early next Fall then, and they will be in season for the Winter
runs at the theatres. Now, I'm the busiest man in the world, and I
believe I have lost five hundred dollars by coming here to-night.
Still, I don't regret it. I'm going back now, and I'll expect to hear
from you when you are ready to start. There's my address. Good-bye,"
and thrusting a card into Tom's hand he hurried out of the room.

"Won't you stop all night?" called Mr. Swift after him.

"Sorry. I'd like to but can't. Got a big contract I must close in New
York to-morrow morning. I've ordered a special train to be at the
Shopton station in half an hour, and I must catch that.  Good night!"
and Mr. Period hurried away.

"Say, he's a hustler all right!" exclaimed Ned.

"Yes, and I've got to hustle if I invent that camera," added Tom. "It's
got to be a specially fast one, and one that can take pictures from a
long distance. Electricity is the thing to use, I guess."

"Then you are really going off on this trip. Tom?" asked his father,
rather wistfully.

"I'm afraid I am," replied his son. "I thought I could stay at home for
a while, but it seems not."

"I was in hopes you could give me a little time to help me on my
gyroscope invention," went on the aged man. "But I suppose it will keep
until you come back. It is nearly finished."

"Yes, and I don't like stopping work on my noiseless motor," spoke Tom.
"But that will have to wait, too."

"Do you know where you are going?" inquired Ned.

"Well, I'll have to do considerable traveling I suppose to get all the
films he wants. But once I'm started I'll like it I guess. Of course
you're coming, Ned."

"I hope so."

"Of course you are!" insisted Tom, as if that settled it. "And I'm sure
Mr. Damon will go also. I haven't seen him in some time.  I hope he
isn't ill."

Tom started work on his Wizard Camera, as he called it, the next
day--that is he began drawing the designs, and planning how to
construct it. Ned helped him, and Koku was on hand in case he was
needed, but there was little he could do, as yet. Tom made an
inspection of his shop the morning after the chicken thief scare, but
nothing seemed to have been disturbed.

A week passed, and Tom had all the plans drawn for the camera.  He had
made several experiments with different forms of electricity for
operating the mechanism, and had decided on a small, but very powerful,
storage battery to move the film, and take the pictures.

This storage battery, which would be inside the camera, would operate
it automatically. That is, the camera could be set up any place, in the
jungle, or on the desert, it could be left alone, and would take
pictures without any one being near it. Tom planned to have it operate
at a certain set time, and stop at a certain time, and he could set the
dials to make this time any moment of the day or night. For there was
to be a powerful light in connection with the camera, in order that
night views might be taken. Besides being automatic the camera could be
worked by hand.

When it was not necessary to have the camera operate by the storage
battery, it could be connected to wires and worked by an ordinary set
of batteries, or by a dynamo. This was for use on the airship, where
there was a big electrical machine. I shall tell you more about the
camera as the story proceeds.

One afternoon Tom was alone in the shop, for he had sent Koku on an
errand, and Eradicate was off in a distant part of the grounds, doing
some whitewashing, which was his specialty. Ned had not come over, and
Mr. Swift, having gone to see some friends, and Mrs. Baggert being at
the store, Tom, at this particular time, was rather isolated.

He was conducting some delicate electrical experiments, and to keep the
measuring instruments steady he had closed all the windows and doors of
his shop. The young inventor was working at a bench in one corner, and
near him, standing upright, was a heavy shaft of iron, part of his
submarine, wrapped in burlap, and padded, to keep it from rusting.

"Now," said Tom to himself, as he mixed two kinds of acid in a jar, to
produce a new sort of electrical current, "I will see if this is any
better than the first way in which I did it."

He was careful about pouring out the powerful stuff, but, in spite of
this, he spilled a drop on his finger. It burned like fire, and,
instinctively, he jerked his hand back.

The next instant there was a series of happenings. Tom's elbow came in
contact with another jar of acid, knocking it over, and spilling it
into the retort where he had been mixing the first two liquids. There
was a hissing sound, as the acids combined, and a thick, white vapor
arose, puffing into Tom's face, and making him gasp.

He staggered back, brushed against the heavy iron shaft in the corner,
and it fell sideways against him, knocking him to the floor, and
dropping across his thighs. The padding on it saved him from broken
bones, but the shaft was so heavy, that after it was on him, Tom could
not move. He was held fast on the floor of his shop, unable to use his
legs, and prevented from getting up.

For a moment Tom was stunned, and then he called:

"Help! Help! Eradicate! Koku! Help!"

He waited a moment, but there was only a silence.

And then Tom smelled a strange odor--an odor of a choking gas that
seemed to smother him.

"It's the acids!" he cried. "They're generating gas! And I'm held fast
here! The place is closed up tight, and I can't move!  Help! Help!"

But there was no one at hand to aid Tom, and every moment the fumes of
the gas became stronger. Desperately the youth struggled to rid himself
of the weight of the shaft, but he could not. And then he felt his
senses leaving him, for the powerful gas was making him unconscious.




CHAPTER V

TOM GETS A WARNING


"Bless my shoe buttons!" exclaimed a voice, as a man came toward Tom's
shop, a little later. "Bless my very necktie! This is odd. I go to the
house, and find no one there. I come out here, and not a soul is about.
Tom Swift can't have gone off on another one of his wonderful trips,
without sending me word. I know he wouldn't do that. And yet, bless my
watch and chain, I can't find any one!"

It was Mr. Damon who spoke, as my old readers have already guessed. He
peered into one of the shop windows, and saw something like a fog
filling the place.

"That's strange," he went on. "I don't see Tom there, and yet it looks
as if an experiment was going on. I wonder--"

Mr. Damon heard some one coming up behind him, and turned to see Koku
the giant, who was returning from the errand on which Tom had sent him.

"Oh, Koku, it's you; is it?" the odd man asked. "Bless my cuff buttons!
Where is Tom?"

"In shop I guess."

"I don't see him. Still I had better look. There doesn't seem to be any
one about."

Mr. Damon opened the shop door, and was met by such an outward rush of
choking gas that he staggered back.

"Bless my--" he began but he had to stop, to cough and gasp.  "There
must have been some sort of an accident," he cried, as he got his lungs
full of fresh air. "A bad accident! Tom could never work in that
atmosphere. Whew!"

"Accident! What is matter?" cried Koku stepping to the doorway.  He,
too choked and gasped, but his was such a strong and rugged nature, and
his lungs held such a supply of air, that it took more than mere gas to
knock him out. He peered in through the wreaths of the acid vapor, and
saw the body of his master, lying on the floor--held down by the heavy
iron.

In another instant Koku had rushed in, holding his breath, for, now
that he was inside the place, the gas made even him feel weak.

"Come back! Come back!" cried Mr. Damon. "You'll be smothered!  Wait
until the gas escapes!"

"Then Mr. Tom die!" cried the giant. "I get him--or I no come out."

With one heave of his powerful right arm, Koku lifted the heavy shaft
from Tom's legs. Then, gathering the lad up in his left arm, as if he
were a baby, Koku staggered out into the fresh air, almost falling with
his burden, as he neared Mr. Damon, for the giant was, well-nigh
overcome.

"Bless my soul!" cried the odd man. "Is he--is he--"

He did not finish the sentence, but, as Koku laid Tom down on the
overcoat of Mr. Damon, which the latter quickly spread on the snow, the
eccentric man put his hand over the heart of the young inventor.

"It beats!" he murmured. "He's alive, but very weak. We must get a
doctor at once. I'll do what I can. There's no time to spare. Bless
my--"

But Mr. Damon concluded that there was no time for blessing anything,
and so he stopped short.

"Carry him up to the house, Koku," he said. "I know where there are
some medicines, and I'll try to revive him while we're waiting for the
doctor Hurry!"

Tom was laid on a lounge, and, just then, Mrs. Baggert came in.

"Telephone for the doctor!" cried Mr. Damon to the housekeeper, who
kept her nerve, and did not get excited. "I'll give Tom some ammonia,
and other stimulants, and see if I can bring him around.  Koku, get me
some cold water."

The telephone was soon carrying the message to the doctor, who promised
to come at once. Koku, in spite of his size, was quick, and soon
brought the water, into which Mr. Damon put some strong medicine, that
he found in a closet. Tom's eyelids fluttered as the others forced some
liquid between his lips.

"He's coming around!" cried the eccentric man. "I guess he'll be all
right, Koku."

"Koku glad," said the giant simply, for he loved Tom with a deep
devotion.

"Yes, Koku, if it hadn't been for you, though, I don't believe that he
would be alive. That was powerful gas, and a few seconds more in there
might have meant the end of Tom. I didn't see him lying on the floor,
until after you rushed in. Bless my thermometer! It is very strange."

They gave Tom more medicine, rubbed his arms and legs, and held ammonia
under his nose. Slowly he opened his eyes, and in a faint voice asked:

"Where--am--I?"

"In your own house," replied Mr. Damon, cheerfully. "How do you feel?"

"I'm--all--right--now," said Tom slowly. He, felt his strength coming
gradually back, and he remembered what had happened, though he did not
yet know how he had been saved. The doctor came in at this moment, with
a small medical battery, which completed the restorative work begun by
the others. Soon Tom could sit up, though he was still weak and rather
sick.

"Who brought me out?" he asked, when he had briefly told how the
accident occurred.

"Koku did," replied Mr. Damon. "I guess none of the rest of us could
have lifted the iron shaft from your legs."

"It's queer how that fell," said Tom, with a puzzled look on his face.
"I didn't hit it hard enough to bring it down. Beside, I had it tied to
nails, driven into the wall, to prevent just such an accident as this.
I must see about it when I get well."

"Not for a couple of days," exclaimed the doctor grimly.  "You've got
to stay in bed a while yet. You had a narrow escape, Tom Swift."

"Well, I'm glad I went to Giant Land," said the young inventor, with a
wan smile. "Otherwise I'd never have Koku," and he looked
affectionately at the big man, who laughed happily. In nature Koku was
much like a child.

Mr. Swift came home a little later, and Ned Newton called, both being
very much surprised to hear of the accident. As for Eradicate, the poor
old colored man was much affected, and would have sat beside Tom's bed
all night, had they allowed him.

Our hero recovered rapidly, once the fumes of the gas left his system,
and, two days later, he was able to go out to the shop again. At his
request everything had been left just as it was after he had been
brought out. Of course the fumes of the gas were soon dissipated, when
the door was opened, and the acids, after mingling and giving off the
vapor, had become neutralized, so that they were now harmless.

"Now I'm going to see what made that shaft fall," said Tom to Ned, as
the two chums walked over to the bench where the young inventor had
been working. "The tap I gave it never ought to have brought it down."

Together they examined the thin, but strong, cords that had been passed
around the shaft, having been fastened to two nails, driven into the
wall.

"Look!" cried Tom, pointing to one of the cords.

"What is it?" asked Ned.

"The strands were partly cut through, so that only a little jar was
enough to break the remaining ones," went on Tom. "They've been cut
with a knife, too, and not frayed by vibration against the nail, as
might be the case. Ned, someone has been in my shop, meddling, and he
wanted this shaft to fall. This is a trick!"

"Great Scott, Tom! You don't suppose any one wanted that shaft to fall
on you; do you?"

"No, I don't believe that. Probably some one wanted to damage the
shaft, or he might have thought it would topple over against the bench,
and break some of my tools, instruments or machinery.  I do delicate
experiments here, and it wouldn't take much of a blow to spoil them.
That's why those cords were cut."

"Who did it? Do you think Andy Foger--"

"No, I think it was the man Koku thought was a chicken thief, and whom
we chased the other night. I've got to be on my guard. I wonder if--"

Tom was interrupted by the appearance of Koku, who came out of the shop
with a letter the postman had just left.

"I don't know that writing very well, and yet it looks familiar," said
Tom, as he tore open the missive. "Hello, here's more trouble!" he
exclaimed as he hastily read it.

"What's up now?" asked Ned.

"This is from Mr. Period, the picture man," went on the young inventor.
"It's a warning."

"A warning?"

"Yes. He says:


"'Dear Tom. Be on your guard. I understand that a rival moving picture
concern is after you. They want to make you an offer, and get you away
from me. But I trust you. Don't have anything to do with these other
fellows. And, at the same time, don't give them a hint as to our plans.
Don't tell them anything about your new camera. There is a lot of
jealousy and rivalry in this business and they are all after me.
They'll probably come to see you, but be on your guard. They know that
I have been negotiating with you. Remember the alarm the other night.'"




CHAPTER VI

TRYING THE CAMERA


"Well, what do you think of that?" cried Ned, as his chum finished.

"It certainly isn't very pleasant," replied Tom. "I wonder why those
chaps can't let me alone? Why don't they invent cameras of their own?
Why are they always trying to get my secret inventions?"

"I suppose they can't do things for themselves," answered Ned.  "And
then, again, your machinery always works, Tom, and some that your
rivals make, doesn't."

"Well, maybe that's it," admitted our hero, as he put away the letter.
"I will be on the watch, just as I have been before. I've got the
burglar alarm wires adjusted on the shop now, and when these rival
moving picture men come after me they'll get a short answer."

For several days nothing happened, and Tom and Ned worked hard on the
Wizard Camera. It was nearing completion, and they were planning, soon,
to give it a test, when, one afternoon, two strangers, in a powerful
automobile, came to the Swift homestead.  They inquired for Tom, and,
as he was out in the shop, with Ned and Koku, and as he often received
visitors out there, Mrs. Baggert sent out the two men, who left their
car in front of the house.

As usual, Tom had the inner door to his shop locked, and when Koku
brought in a message that two strangers would like to see the young
inventor, Tom remarked:

"I guess it's the rival picture men, Ned. We'll see what they have to
say."

"Which of you is Tom Swift?" asked the elder of the two men, as Tom and
Ned entered the front office, for our hero knew better than to admit
the strangers to the shop.

"I am," replied Tom.

"Well, we're men of business," went on the speaker, "and there is no
use beating about the bush. I am Mr. Wilson Turbot, and this is my
partner, Mr. William Eckert. We are in the business of making moving
picture films, and I understand that you are associated with Mr. Period
in this line. 'Spotty' we call him."

"Yes, I am doing some work for Mr. Period," admitted Tom, cautiously.

"Have you done any yet?"

"No, but I expect to."

"What kind of a camera are you going to use?" asked Mr. Eckert eagerly.

"I must decline to answer that," replied Tom, a bit stiffly.

"Oh, that's all right," spoke Mr. Turbot, good naturedly. "Only
'Spotty' was bragging that you were making a new kind of film for him,
and we wondered if it was on the market."

"We are always looking for improvements," added Mr. Eckert.

"This camera isn't on the market," replied Tom, on his guard as to how
he answered.

The two men whispered together for a moment, and then Mr. Turbot said:

"Well, as I remarked, we're men of business, and there's no use beating
about the bush. We've heard of you, Tom Swift, and we know you can do
things. Usually, in this world, every man has his price, and we're
willing to pay big to get what we want. I don't know what offer Mr.
Period made to you, but I'll say this: We'll give you double what he
offered, for the exclusive rights to your camera, whenever it's on the
market, and we'll pay you a handsome salary to work for us."

"I'm sorry, but I can't consider the offer," replied Tom firmly. "I
have given my word to Mr. Period. I have a contract with him, and I
cannot break it."

"Offer him three times what Period did," said Mr. Eckert, in a hoarse
whisper that Tom heard.

"It would be useless!" exclaimed our hero. "I wouldn't go back on my
word for a hundred times the price I am to get. I am not in this
business so much for the money, as I am for the pleasure of it."

The men were silent a moment. There were ugly looks on their faces.
They looked sharply at Tom and Ned. Then Mr. Eckert said:

"You'll regret this, Tom Swift. We are the biggest firm of moving
picture promoters in the world. We always get what we want."

"You won't get my camera," replied Tom calmly.

"I don't know about that!" exclaimed Mr. Turbot, as he made a hasty
stride toward Tom, who stood in front of the door leading to the
shop--the shop where his camera, almost ready for use, was on a bench.
"I guess if we--"

"Koku!" suddenly called Tom.

The giant stepped into the front office. He had been standing near the
door, inside the main shop. Mr. Turbot who had stretched forth his
hand, as though to seize Tom, and his companion, who had advanced
toward Ned, fairly jumped back in fright at the sight of the big man.

"Koku," went on Tom, in even tones, "just show these gentlemen to the
front door--and lock it after them," he added significantly, as he
turned back into the shop, followed by Ned.

"Yes, Mr. Tom," answered the giant, and then, with his big hand, and
brawny fist, he gently turned the two men toward the outer door. They
were gasping in surprise as they looked at the giant.

"You'll be sorry for this, Tom Swift!" exclaimed Mr. Turbot.  "You'll
regret not having taken our offer. This Period chat is only a small
dealer. We can do better by you. You'll regret--"

"You'll regret coming here again," snapped Tom, as he closed the door
of his shop, leaving Koku to escort the baffled plotters to their auto.
Shortly afterward Tom and Ned heard the car puffing away.

"Well, they came, just as Mr. Period said they would," spoke Tom,
slowly.

"Yes, and they went away again!" exclaimed Ned with a laugh.  "They had
their trip for nothing. Say, did you see how they stared at Koku?"

"Yes, he's a helper worth having, in cases like these."

Tom wrote a full account of what had happened and sent it to Mr.
Period. He received in reply a few words, thanking him for his loyalty,
and again warning him to be on his guard.

In the meanwhile, work went on rapidly on the Wizard Camera.  Briefly
described it was a small square box, with a lens projecting from it.
Inside, however, was complicated machinery, much too complicated for me
to describe. Tom Swift had put in his best work on this wonderful
machine. As I have said, it could be worked by a storage battery, by
ordinary electric current from a dynamo, or by hand. On top was a new
kind of electric light. This was small and compact, but it threw out
powerful beams. With the automatic arrangement set, and the light
turned on, the camera could be left at a certain place after dark, and
whatever went on in front of it would be reproduced on the moving roll
of film inside.

In the morning the film could be taken out, developed, and the pictures
thrown on a screen in the usual way, familiar to all who have been in a
moving picture theatre. With the reproducing machines Tom had nothing
to do, as they were already perfected.  His task had been to make the
new-style camera, and it was nearly completed.

A number of rolls of films could be packed into the camera, and they
could be taken out, or inserted, in daylight. Of course after one film
had been made, showing any particular scene any number of films could
be made from this "master" one. Just as is done with the ordinary
moving picture camera. Tom had an attachment to show when one roll was
used, and when another needed inserting.

For some time after the visit of the rival moving picture men, Tom was
on his guard. Both house and shop were fitted with burglar alarms, but
they did not ring. Eradicate and Koku were told to be on watch, but
there was nothing for them to do.

"Well," remarked Tom to Ned, one afternoon, when they had both worked
hard, "I think it's about finished. Of course it needs polishing, and
there may be some adjusting to do, but my camera is now ready to take
pictures--at least I'm going to give it a test."

"Have you the rolls of films?"

"Yes, half a dozen of 'em And I'm going to try the hardest test first."

"Which one is that?"

"The night test. I'm going to place the camera out in the yard, facing
my shop. Then you and I, and some of the others, will go out, pass in
front of it, do various stunts, and, in the morning we'll develop the
films and see what we have."

"Why, are you going to leave the camera out, all night?"

"Sure. I'm going to give it the hardest kind of a test."

"But are you and I going to stay up all night to do stunts in front of
it?"

"No, indeed. I'm going to let it take what ever pictures happen to come
along to be taken after we get through making some special early ones.
You see my camera will be a sort of watch dog, only of course it won't
catch any one--that is, only their images will be caught on the film.

"Oh, I see," exclaimed Ned, and then he helped Tom fix the machine for
the test.




CHAPTER VII

WHAT THE CAMERA CAUGHT


"Well, is she working, Tom?" asked our hero's chum, a little later,
when they had set the camera up on a box in the garden. It pointed
toward the main shop door, and from the machine came a clicking sound.
The electric light was glowing.

"Yes, it's all ready," replied Tom. "Now just act as if it wasn't
there. You walk toward the shop. Do anything you please.  Pretend you
are coming in to see me on business. Act as if it was daytime. I'll
stand here and receive you. Later, I'll get dad out here, Koku and
Eradicate. I wish Mr. Period was here to see the test, but perhaps it's
just as well for me to make sure it works before he sees it."

"All right, Tom, here I come."

Ned advanced toward the shop. He tried to act as though the camera was
not taking pictures of him, at the rate of several a second, but he
forgot himself, and turned to look at the staring lens. Then Tom, with
a laugh, advanced to meet him, shaking hands with him. Then the lads
indulged in a little skylarking. They threw snowballs at each other,
taking care, however to keep within range of the lens. Of course when
Tom worked the camera himself, he could point it wherever he wanted to,
but it was now automatic.

Then the lads went to the shop, and came out again. They did several
other things. Later Koku, and Eradicate did some "stunts," as Tom
called them. Mr. Swift, too, was snapped, but Mrs. Baggert refused to
come out.

"Well, I guess that will do for now," said Tom, as he stopped the
mechanism. "I've just thought of something," he added. "If I leave the
light burning, it will scare away, before they got in front of the
lens, any one who might come along. I'll have to change that part of
it."

"How can you fix it?" asked Ned.

"Easily. I'll rig up some flash lights, just ordinary photographing
flashlights, you know. I'll time them to go off one after the other,
and connect them with an electric wire to the door of my shop."

"Then your idea is--" began Ned.

"That some rascals may try to enter my shop at night. Not this
particular night, but any night. If they come to-night we'll be ready
for them."

"An' can't yo'-all take a picture ob de chicken coop?" asked Eradicate.
"Dat feller may come back t' rob mah hens."

"With the lens pointing toward the shop," spoke Tom, "it will also take
snap shots of any one who tries to enter the coop. So, if the chicken
thief does come, Rad, we'll have a picture of him."

Tom and Ned soon had the flashlights in place, and then they went to
bed, listening, at times, for the puff that would indicate that the
camera was working. But the night passed without incident, rather to
Tom's disappointment. However, in the morning, he developed the film of
the first pictures taken in the evening. Soon they were dry enough to
be used in the moving picture machine, which Tom had bought, and set up
in a dark room.

"There we are!" he cried, as the first images were thrown on the white
screen. "As natural as life, Ned! My camera works all right!"

"That's so. Look! There's where I hit you with a snowball!" cried his
chum, as the skylarking scene was reached.

"Mah goodness!" cried Eradicate, when he saw himself walking about on
the screen, as large as life. "Dat shorely am wonderful."

"It is spirits!" cried Koku, as he saw himself depicted.

"I wish we had some of the other pictures to show," spoke Tom.  "I mean
some unexpected midnight visitors."

For several nights in succession the camera was set to "snap" any one
who might try to enter the shop. The flashlights were also in place.
Tom and Ned, the latter staying at his chum's house that week, were
beginning to think they would have their trouble for their pains. But
one night something happened.

It was very dark, but the snow on the ground made a sort of glow that
relieved the blackness. The camera had been set as usual, and Tom and
Ned went to bed.

It must have been about midnight when they were both awakened by
hearing the burglar alarm go off. At the same time there were several
flashes of fire from the garden.

"There she goes!" cried Ned.

"Yes, they're trying to get into the shed," added Tom, as a glance at
the burglar-alarm indicator on the wall of the room, showed that the
shop door was being tried. "Come on!"

"I'm with you!" yelled Ned.

They lost little time getting into their clothes, for they had laid
them out in readiness for putting on quickly. Down the stairs they
raced, but ere they reached the garden they heard footsteps running
along the wall toward the road.

"Who's there?" cried Tom, but there was no answer.

"Koku! Eradicate!" yelled Ned.

"Yais, sah, I'se comm'!" answered the colored man, and the voice of the
giant was also heard. The flashlights had ceased popping before this,
and when the two lads and their helpers had reached the shop, there was
no one in sight.

"The camera's there all right!" cried Tom in relief as he picked it up
from the box. "Now to see what it caught. Did you see anything of the
fellows, Koku, or Eradicate?" Both said they had not, but Eradicate,
after examining the chicken house door by the aid of a lighted match,
cried out:

"Somebody's been tryin' t' git in heah, Massa Tom. I kin see where de
do's been scratched."

"Well, maybe we'll have the picture for you to look at in the morning,"
said Tom.

The films were developed in the usual way in the morning, but the
pictures were so small that Tom could not make out the features or
forms of the men. And it was plain that at least three men had been
around the coop and shop.

By the use of alcohol and an electric fan Tom soon had the films dry
enough to use. Then the moving picture machine was set up in a dark
room, and all gathered to see what would be thrown on the screen,
greatly enlarged.

First came several brilliant flashes of light, and then, as the
entrance to the shop loomed into view, a dark figure seemed to walk
across the canvas. But it did not stop at the shop door.  Instead it
went to the chicken coop, and, as the man reached that door, he began
working to get it open. Of course it had all taken place in a few
seconds, for, as soon as the flashlights went off, the intruders had
run away. But they had been there long enough to have their pictures
taken.

The man at the chicken coop turned around as the lights flashed, and he
was looking squarely at the camera. Of course this made his face very
plain to the audience, as Tom turned the crank of the reproducing
machine.

"Why, it's a colored man!" cried Ned in surprise.

"Yes, I guess it's only an ordinary chicken thief, after all," remarked
Tom.

There was a gasp from Eradicate.

"Fo' de land sakes!" he cried. "De raskil! Ef dat ain't mah own second
cousin, what libs down by de ribber! An' to t'ink dat Samuel 'Rastus
Washington Jackson Johnson, mah own second cousin, should try t' rob
mah chicken coop! Oh, won't I gib it t' him!"

"Are you sure, Rad?" asked Tom.

"Suah? Sartin I'se suah, Massa Tom," was the answer as the startled
colored man on the screen stared at the small audience.  "I'd know dat
face ob his'n anywhere."

"Well, I guess he's the only one we caught last night," said Tom, as
the disappointed chicken thief ran away, and so out of focus. But the
next instant there came another series of flashlight explosions on the
screen, and there, almost as plainly as if our friends were looking at
them, they saw two men stealthily approaching the shop. They, too, as
the chicken thief had done, tried the door, and then, they also,
startled by the flashes, turned around.

"Look!" cried Ned.

"Great Scott!" exclaimed Tom. "Those are the two rivals of Mr. Period!
They are Mr. Turbot and Mr. Eckert!"

"Same men I pushed out!" cried Koku, much excited.

There was no doubt of it, and, as the images faded from the screen,
caused by the men running away, Tom and Ned realized that their rivals
had tried to put their threat into execution--the threat of making Tom
wish he had taken their offer.

"I guess they came to take my camera,--but, instead the camera took
them," said the young inventor grimly.




CHAPTER VIII

PHOTOS FROM THE AIRSHIP


"Well, Tom, how is it going?" asked a voice at the door of the shop
where the young inventor was working. He looked up quickly to behold
Mr. Nestor, father of Mary, in which young lady, as I have said, Tom
was much interested. "How is the moving picture camera coming on?"

"Pretty good, Mr. Nestor. Come in. I guess Koku knew you all right. I
told him to let in any of my friends, but I have to keep him there on
guard."

"So I understand. They nearly got in the other night, but I hear that
your camera caught them."

"Yes, that proved that the machine is a success, even if we didn't
succeed in arresting the men."

"Did you try?"

"Yes, I sent copies of the film, showing Turbot and Eckert trying to
break into my shop, to Mr. Period, and he had enlarged photographs
made, and went to the police. They said it was rather flimsy evidence
on which to arrest anybody, and so they didn't act. However, we sent
copies of the pictures to Turbot and Eckert themselves, so they know
that we know they were here, and I guess they'll steer clear of me
after this."

"I guess so, Tom," agreed Mr. Nestor with a laugh. "But what about the
chicken thief?"

"Oh, Eradicate attended to his second cousin. He went to see him,
showed him a print from the film, and gave him to understand that he'd
be blown up with dynamite, or kicked by Boomerang, if he ever came
around here again, and so Samuel 'Rastus Washington Jackson Johnson
will be careful about visiting strange chicken coops, after this."

"I believe you, Tom. But how is the camera coming on?"

"Very well. I am making a few changes in it, and I expect to get my
biggest airship in readiness for the trip in about a week, and then
I'll try taking pictures from her. But I understand that you are
interested in Mr. Period's business, Mr. Nestor?"

"Yes, I own some stock in the company, and, Tom, that's what I came
over to see you about. I need a vacation. Mary and her mother are going
away this Spring for a long visit, and I was wondering if you couldn't
take me with you on the trips you will make to get moving pictures for
our concern."

"Of course I can, Mr. Nestor. I'll be glad to do it."

"And there is another thing, Tom," went on Mr. Nestor, soberly.  "I've
got a good deal of my fortune tied up in this moving picture affair. I
want to see you win out--I don't want our rivals to get ahead of us."

"They shan't get ahead of us."

"You see, Tom, it's this way. There is a bitter fight on between our
concern and that controlled by our rivals. Each is trying to get the
business of a large chain of moving picture theatres throughout the
United States. These theatre men are watching us both, and the
contracts for next season will go to the concern showing the best line
of films. If our rivals get ahead of us--well, it will just about ruin
our company,--and about ruin me too, I guess."

"I shall do my very best," answered our hero.

"Is Mr. Damon going along?"

"Well, I have just written to ask him. I sent the letter yesterday.

"Doesn't he know what you contemplate?"

"Not exactly. You see when he came, that time I was overcome by the
fumes from the acids, everything was so upset that I didn't get a
chance to tell him. He's been away on business ever since, but returned
yesterday. I certainly hope that he goes with us.  Ned Newton is
coming, and with you, and Koku and myself, it will be a nicer party."

"Then you are going to take Koku?"

"I think I will. I'm a little worried about what these rival moving
picture men might do, and if I get into trouble with them, my giant
helper would come in very useful, to pick one up and throw him over a
tree top, for instance."

"Indeed, yes," agreed Mr. Nestor, with a laugh. "But I hope nothing
like that happens."

"Nothing like that happens?" suddenly asked a voice. "Bless my
bookcase! but there always seems to be something going on here.  What's
up now, Tom Swift?"

"Nothing much, Mr. Damon," replied our hero, as he recognized his odd
friend. "We were just talking about moving pictures, Mr. Damon, and
about you. Did you get my letter?"

"I did, Tom."

"And are you going with us?"

"Tom, did you ever know me to refuse an invitation from you? I guess
not! Of course I'm going. But, for mercy sakes, don't tell my wife! She
mustn't know about it until the last minute, and then she'll be so
surprised, when I tell her, that she won't think of objecting. Don't
let her know."

Tom laughed, and promised, and then the three began talking of the
prospective trip. After a bit Ned Newton joined the party.

Tom showed the two men how his new camera worked. He had made several
improvements on it since the first pictures were taken, and now it was
almost perfect. Mr. Period had been out to see it work, and said it was
just the apparatus needed.

"You can get films with that machine," he said, "that will be better
than any pictures ever thrown on a screen. My fortune will be made,
Tom, and yours too, if you can only get pictures that are out of the
ordinary. There will be some hair-raising work, I expect, but you can
do it."

"I'll try," spoke Tom. "I have--"

"Hold on! I know what you are going to say," interrupted Mr. Period.
"You are going to say that you've gone through some strenuous times
already. I know you have, but you're going to have more soon. I think
I'll send you to India first."

"To India!" exclaimed Tom, for Mr. Period had spoken of that as if it
was but a journey downtown.

"Yes, India. I want a picture of an elephant drive, and if you can get
pictures of the big beasts in a stampede, so much the better. Then,
too, the Durbar is on now, and that will make a good film. How soon can
you start for Calcutta?"

"Well, I've got to overhaul the airship," said Tom. "That will take
about three weeks. The camera is practically finished. I can leave in a
month, I guess."

"Good. We'll have fine weather by that time. Are you going all the way
by your airship?"

"No, I think it will be best to take that apart, ship it by steamer,
and go that way ourselves. I can put the airship together in India, and
then use it to get to any other part of Europe, Asia or Africa you
happen to want pictures from."

"Good! Well, get to work now, and I'll see you again."

In the days that followed, Tom and Ned were kept busy. There was
considerable to do on the airship, in the way of overhauling it. This
craft was Tom's largest, and was almost like the one in which he had
gone to the caves of ice, where it was wrecked. It had been, however,
much improved.

The craft was a sort of combined dirigible balloon, and aeroplane, and
could be used as either. There was a machine on board for generating
gas, to use in the balloon part of it, and the ship, which was named
the Flyer, could carry several persons.

"Bless my shoe laces!" cried Mr. Damon one day as he looked at Koku.
"If we take him along in the airship, will we be able to float, Tom?"

"Oh, yes. The airship is plenty big enough. Besides, we are not going
to take along a very large party, and the camera is not heavy. Oh,
we'll be all right. I suppose you'll be on hand to-morrow, Mr. Damon?"

"To-morrow? What for?"

"We're going to take the picture machine up in the airship, and get
some photos from the sky. I expect to make some films from high in the
air, as well as some in the regular way, on the ground, and I want a
little practice. Come around about two o'clock, and we'll have a trial
flight."

"All right. I will. But don't let my wife know I'm going up in an
airship again. She's read of so many accidents lately, that she's
nervous about having me take a trip."

"Oh, I won't tell," promised Tom with a laugh, and he worked away
harder than ever, for there were many little details to perfect. The
weather was now getting warm, as there was an early spring, and it was
pleasant out of doors.

The moving picture camera was gotten in readiness. Extra rolls of films
were on hand, and the big airship, in which they were to go up, for
their first test of taking pictures from high in the air, had been
wheeled out of the shed.

"Are you going up very far?" asked Mr. Nestor of Tom, and the young
inventor thought that Mary's father was a trifle nervous.  He had not
made many flights, and then only a little way above the ground, with
Tom.

"Not very high," replied our hero. "You see I want to get pictures that
will be large, and if I'm too far away I can't do it."

"Glad to hear it," replied Mr. Nestor, with a note of relief in his
voice. "Though I suppose to fall a thousand feet isn't much different
from falling a hundred when you consider the results."

"Not much," admitted Tom frankly.

"Bless my feather bed!" cried Mr. Damon. "Please don't talk of falling,
when we're going up in an airship. It makes me nervous."

"We'll not fall!" declared Tom confidently.

Mr. Period sent his regrets, that he could not be present at the trial,
stating in his letter that he was the busiest man in the world, and
that his time was worth about a dollar a minute just at present. He,
however, wished Tom all success. Tom's first effort was to sail along,
with the lens of the camera pointed straight toward the earth. He would
thus get, if successful, a picture that, when thrown on the screen,
would give the spectators the idea that they were looking down from a
moving balloon. For that reason Tom was not going to fly very high, as
he wanted to get all the details possible.

"All aboard!" cried the young inventor, when he had seen to it that his
airship was in readiness for a flight. The camera had been put aboard,
and the lens pointed toward earth through a hole in the main cabin
floor. All who were expected to make the trip with Tom were on hand,
Koku taking the place of Eradicate this time, as the colored man was
too aged and feeble to go along.

"All ready?" asked Ned, who stood in the steering tower, with his hand
on the starting lever, while Tom was at the camera to see that it
worked properly.

"All ready," answered the young inventor, and, an instant later, they
shot upward, as the big propellers whizzed around.

Tom at once started the camera to taking pictures rapidly, as he wanted
the future audience to get a perfect idea of how it looked to go up in
a balloon, leaving the earth behind. Then as the Flyer moved swiftly
over woods and fields, Tom moved the lens from side to side, to get
different views.

"Say! This is great!" cried Mr. Nestor, to whom air-riding was much of
a novelty. "Are you getting good pictures, Tom?"

"I can't tell until we develop them. But the machine seems to be
working all right. I'm going to sail back now, and get some views of
our own house from up above."

They had sailed around the town of Shopton, to the neighboring
villages, over woods and fields. Now they were approaching Shopton
again.

"Bless my heart!" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Damon, who was looking toward
the earth, as they neared Tom's house.

"What is it?" asked our hero, glancing up from the picture machine, the
registering dial of which he was examining.

"Look there! At your shop, Tom! There seems to be a lot of smoke coming
from it!"

They were almost over Tom's shop now, and, as Mr. Damon had said, there
was considerable smoke rolling above it.

"I guess Eradicate is burning up papers and trash," was Ned's opinion.

Tom looked to where the camera pointed, he was right over his shop now,
and could see a dense vapor issuing from the door.

"That isn't Eradicate!" cried the young inventor. "My shop is on fire!
I've got to make a quick drop, and save it! There are a lot of valuable
models, and machines in there! Send us down, Ned, as fast as she'll go!"




CHAPTER IX

OFF FOR INDIA


"Bless my hose reel!" cried Mr. Damon, as the airship took a quick
lurch toward the earth. "Things are always happening to you, Tom Swift!
Your shop on fire! How did it happen?"

"Look!" suddenly cried Ned, before Tom had a chance to answer.
"There's a man running away from the shop, Tom!"

All saw him, and, as the airship rushed downward it could be seen that
he was a fellow dressed in ragged garments, a veritable tramp.

"I guess that fire didn't happen," said Tom significantly. "It was
deliberately set. Oh, if we can only get there before it gains too much
headway!"

"I like to catch that fellow!" exclaimed Koku, shaking his big fist at
the retreating tramp. "I fix him!"

On rushed the airship, and the man who had probably started the fire,
glanced up at it. Tom suddenly turned the lens of his Wizard Camera
toward him. The mechanism inside, which had been stopped, started
clicking again, as the young inventor switched on the electric current.

"What are you doing?" cried Ned, as he guided the airship toward the
shop, whence clouds of smoke were rolling.

"Taking his picture," replied Tom. "It may come in useful for evidence."

But he was not able to get many views of the fellow, for the latter
must have suspected what was going on. He quickly made a dive for the
bushes, and was soon lost to sight. Tom shut off his camera.

"Bless my life preserver!" cried Mr. Damon. "There comes your father,
Tom, and Mrs. Baggert! They've got buckets! They're going to put out
the fire!"

"Why don't they think to use the hose?" cried the young inventor, for
he had his shop equipped with many hose lines, and an electrically
driven pump. "The hose! The hose, dad!" shouted Tom, but it is doubtful
if his father or Mrs. Baggert heard him, for the engine of the airship
was making much noise. However, the two with the buckets looked up, and
waved their hands to those on the Flyer.

"There's Eradicate!" yelled Ned. "He's got the hose all right!" The
colored man was beginning to unreel a line.

"That's what it needs!" exclaimed Tom. "Now there's some chance to save
the shop."

"We'll be there ourselves to take a hand in a few seconds!" cried Mr.
Damon, forgetting to bless anything.

"The scoundrel who started this fire, and those back of him, ought to
be imprisoned for life!" declared Mr. Nestor.

A moment later Ned had landed the airship within a short distance of
the shop. In an instant the occupants of the craft had leaped out, and
Tom, after a hasty glance to see that his valuable camera was safe,
dashed toward the building crying:

"Never mind the pails, dad! Use the hose! there's a nozzle at the back
door. Go around there, and play the water on from that end."

Eradicate, with his line of hose, had disappeared into the shop through
the front door, and the others pressed in after him, heedless of the
dense smoke.

"Is it blazing much, Rad?" cried Tom.

"Can't see no blaze at all, Massa Tom," replied the colored man.
"Dere's a heap of suffin in de middle ob de flo', an' dat's what's
raisin' all de rumpus."

They all saw it a moment later, a smoldering heap of rags and paper on
the concrete floor of the shop. Eradicate turned his hose on it, there
was a hissing sound, a cloud of steam arose, and the fire was
practically out, though much smoke remained.

"Jove! that was a lucky escape!" exclaimed Tom, as he looked around
when the vapor had partly cleared away. "No damage done at all, as far
as I can see. I wonder what the game was? Did you see anything of a
tramp around here?" he asked of his father.

"No, Tom. I have been busy in the house. So has Mrs. Baggert.  Suddenly
she called my attention to the smoke coming from the door, and we ran
out."

"I seen it, too," added Eradicate. "I was doin' some whitewashin', an'
I run up as soon as I could."

"We saw the tramp all right, but he got away," said Tom, and he told
how he had taken pictures of him. "I don't believe it would be much use
to look for him now, though."

"Me look," spoke Koku significantly, as he hurried off in the direction
taken by the tramp. He came back later, not having found him.

"What do you think of it, Tom?" asked Ned, when the excitement had
calmed down, and the pile of burned rags had been removed. It was found
that oil and chemicals had been put on them to cause a dense smoke.

"I think it was the work of those fellows who are after my camera,"
replied the young inventor. "They are evidently watching me, and when
they saw us all go off in the airship they thought probably that the
coast was clear."

"But why should they start a fire?"

"I don't know, but probably to create a lot of smoke, and excitement,
so that they could search, and not be detected. Maybe the fellow after
he found that the camera was gone, wanted to draw those in the house
out to the shop, so he could have a clear field to search in my room
for any drawings that would give him a clew as to how my machine works.
They certainly did not want to burn the shop, for that pile of rags
could have smoldered all day on the concrete floor, without doing any
harm. Robbery was the motive, I think."

"The police ought to be notified," declared Mr. Nestor.  "Develop those
pictures, Tom, and I'll take the matter up with the police. Maybe they
can identify the tramp from the photographs."

But this proved impossible. Tom had secured several good films, not
only in the first views he took, giving the spectators the impression
that they were going up in an airship, but also those showing the shop
on fire, and the tramp running away, were very plain.

The police made a search for the incendiary, but of course did not find
him. Mr. Period came to Shopton, and declared it was his belief that
his rivals, Turbot and Eckert, had had a hand in the matter. But it was
only a suspicion, though Tom himself believed the same thing. Still
nothing could be accomplished.

"The thing to do, now that the camera works all right, is for you to
hit the trail for India at once," suggested the picture man. "They
won't follow you there. Get me some pictures of the Durbar, of
elephants being captured, of tiger fights, anything exciting."

"I'll do my--" began Tom.

"Wait, I'm not through," interrupted the excitable man. "Then go get
some volcanoes, earthquakes--anything that you think would be
interesting. I'll keep in touch with you, and cable occasionally. Get
all the films you can. When will you start?"

"I can leave inside of two weeks," replied Tom.

"Then do it, and, meanwhile, be on your guard."

It was found that a few changes were needed on the camera, and some
adjustments to the airship. Another trial flight was made, and some
excellent pictures taken. Then Tom and his friends prepared to take the
airship apart, and pack it for shipment to Calcutta. It was to go on
the same steamer as themselves, and of course the Wizard Camera would
accompany Tom. He took along many rolls of films, enough, he thought,
for many views. He was also to send back to Mr. Period from time to
time, the exposed rolls of film, so they could be developed, and
printed in the United States, as Tom would not have very good
facilities for this on the airship, and to reproduce them there was
almost out of the question. Still he did fit up a small dark room
aboard the Flyer, where he could develop pictures if he wished.

There was much to be done, but hard work accomplished it, and finally
the party was ready to start for India. Tom said good-bye to Mary
Nestor, of course, and her father accompanied our hero from the Nestor
house to the Swift homestead, where the start was to take place.

Eradicate bade his master a tearful good-bye, and there was moisture in
the eyes of Mr. Swift, as he shook hands with his son.

"Take care of yourself, Tom," he said. "Don't run too many risks. This
moving picture taking isn't as easy as it sounds.  It's more than just
pointing your camera at things. Write if you get a chance, or send me a
message."

Tom promised, and then bade farewell to Mrs. Baggert. All were
assembled, Koku, Mr. Damon, who blessed everything he saw, and some
things he did not, Ned, Mr. Nestor and Tom. The five were to go by
train to New York, there to go aboard the steamer.

Their journey to the metropolis was uneventful. Mr. Period met them at
the steamship dock, after Tom had seen to it that the baggage, and the
parts of the airship were safely aboard.

"I wish I were going along!" exclaimed the picture man. "It's going to
be a great trip. But I can't spare the time. I'm the busiest man in the
world. I lose about a thousand dollars just coming down to see you off,
but it's a good investment. I don't mind it. Now, Tom, good luck, and
don't forget, I want exciting views."

"I'll try--" began our hero.

"Wait, I know what you're going to say!" interrupted Mr. Period.
"You'll do it, of course. Well, I must be going. I will--  Great
Scott!" and Mr. Period interrupted himself. "He has the nerve to come
here!"

"Who?" asked Tom.

"Wilson Turbot, the rascal! He's trying to balk me at the last minute,
I believe. I'm going to see what he means!" and with this, the excited
Mr. Period rushed down the gangplank, toward the man at whom he had
pointed--one of the men who had tried to buy Tom's picture taking
camera.

A moment later the steamer's whistle blew, the last belated passenger
rushed up the gangplank, it was drawn in, and the vessel began to move
away from the dock. Tom and his friends were on their way to India, and
the last glimpse they had of Mr. Period was as he was chasing along the
pier, after Mr. Turbot.




CHAPTER X

UNEXPECTED EXCITEMENT


"Well, what do you know about that, Tom?" asked Ned, as they stood on
deck watching the chase. "Isn't he the greatest ever--Mr. Period, I
mean?"

"He certainly is. I'd like to see what happens when he catches that
Turbot chap."

"Bless my pocket handkerchief!" cried Mr. Damon. "I don't believe he
will. Mr. Period's legs aren't long enough for fast running."

"Those scoundrels were after us, up to the last minute," spoke Mr.
Nestor, as the ship moved farther out from the dock. Tom and his
friends could no longer see the excitable picture man after his rival,
but there was a commotion in the crowd, and it seemed as if he had
caught the fellow.

"Well, we're free of him now," spoke the young inventor, with a breath
of relief. "That is, unless they have set some one else on our trail,"
and he looked carefully at the passengers near him, to detect, if
possible, any who might look like spies in the pay of the rival moving
picture concern, or any suspicious characters who might try to steal
the valuable camera, that was now safely locked in Tom's cabin. Our
hero, however, saw no one to worry about. He resolved to remain on his
guard.

Friends and relatives were waving farewells to one another, and the
band was playing, as the big vessel drew out into the North, or Hudson,
river, and steamed for the open sea.

Little of interest marked the first week of the voyage. All save Koku
had done much traveling before, and it was no novelty to them. The
giant, however, was amused and delighted with everything, even the most
commonplace things he saw. He was a source of wonder to all the other
passengers, and, in a way, he furnished much excitement.

One day several of the sailors were on deck, shifting one of the heavy
anchors. They went about it in their usual way, all taking hold, and
"heaving" together with a "chanty," or song, to enliven their work. But
they did not make much progress, and one of the mates got rather
excited about it.

"Here, shiver my timbers!" he cried. "Lively now! Lay about you, and
get that over to the side!"

"Yo! Heave! Ho!" called the leader of the sailor gang.

The anchor did not move, for it had either caught on some projection,
or the men were not using their strength.

"Lively! Lively!" cried the mate.

Suddenly Koku, who was in the crowd of passengers watching the work,
pushed his way to where the anchor lay. With a powerful, but not rough
action, he shoved the sailors aside. Then, stooping over, he took a
firm grip of the big piece of iron, planted his feet well apart on the
deck, and lifted the immense mass in his arms. There was a round of
applause from the group of passengers.

"Where you want him?" Koku calmly asked of the mate, as he stood
holding the anchor.

"Blast my marlin spikes!" cried the mate. "I never see the like of this
afore! Put her over there, shipmate. If I had you on a voyage or two
you'd be running the ship, instead of letting the screw push her along.
Put her over there," and he indicated where he wanted the anchor.

Koku calmly walked along the deck, laid the anchor down as if it was an
ordinary weight, and passed over to where Tom stood looking on in
amused silence. There were murmurs of surprise from the passengers at
the giant's strength, and the sailors went forward much abashed.

"Say, I'd give a good bit to have a bodyguard like that," exclaimed a
well-known millionaire passenger, who, it was reported, was in constant
fear of attacks, though they had never taken place. "I wonder if I
could get him."

He spoke to Tom about it, but our hero would not listen to a
proposition to part with Koku. Besides, it is doubtful if the simple
giant would leave the lad who had brought him away from his South
American home. But, if Koku was wonderfully strong, and, seemingly
afraid of nothing, there were certain things he feared.

One afternoon, for the amusement of the passengers, a net was put
overboard, sunk to a considerable depth, and hauled up with a number of
fishes in it. Some of the finny specimens were good for eating, and
others were freaks, strange and curious.

Koku was in the throng that gathered on deck to look at the haul.
Suddenly a small fish, but very hideous to look at, leaped from the net
and flopped toward the giant. With a scream of fear Koku jumped to one
side, and ran down to his stateroom. He could not be induced to come on
deck until Tom assured him that the fishes had been disposed of. Thus
Koku was a mixture of giant and baby. But he was a general favorite on
the ship, and often gave exhibitions of his strength.

Meanwhile Tom and his friends had been on the lookout for any one who
might be trailing them. But they saw no suspicious characters among the
passengers, and, gradually, they began to feel that they had left their
enemies behind.

The weather was pleasant, and the voyage very enjoyable. Tom and the
others had little to do, and they were getting rather impatient for the
time to come when they could put the airship together, and sail off
over the jungle, to get moving pictures of the elephants.

"Have you any films in the camera now?" asked Ned of his chum on day,
as they sat on deck together.

"Yes, it's all ready for instant use. Even the storage battery is
charged. Why?"

"Oh, I was just wondering. I was thinking we might somehow see
something we could take pictures of."

"Not much out here," said Tom, as he looked across the watery expanse.
As he did so, he saw a haze of smoke dead ahead. "We'll pass a steamer
soon," he went on, "but that wouldn't make a good picture. It's too
common."

As the two lads watched, the smoke became blacker, and the cloud it
formed grew much larger.

"They're burning a lot of coal on that ship," remarked Ned.  "Must be
trying for a speed record."

A little later a sailor stationed himself in the crow's nest, and
focused a telescope on the smoke. An officer, on deck, seemed to be
waiting for a report from the man aloft.

"That's rather odd," remarked Ned. "I never knew them to take so much
interest in a passing steamer before; and we've gone by several of
late."

"That's right," agreed Tom. "I wonder--"

At that moment the officer, looking up, called out:

"Main top!"

"Aye, aye, sir," answered the sailor with the glass. "She's a small
steamer, sir, and she's on fire!"

"That's what I feared. Come down. I'll tell the captain. We must crowd
on all steam, and go to the rescue."

"Did you hear that?" cried Ned to Tom, as the officer hurried to the
bridge, where the captain awaited him. "A steamer on fire at sea, Tom!
why don't you--"

"I'm going to!" interrupted the young inventor, as he started for his
cabin on the run. "I'm going to get some moving pictures of the rescue!
That will be a film worth having."

A moment later the Belchar, the vessel on which our friends had
embarked, increased her speed, while sudden excitement developed on
board.

As the Belchar approached the burning steamer, which had evidently seen
her, and was making all speed toward her, the cloud of smoke became
more dense, and a dull flame could be seen reflected in the water.

"She's going fast!" cried Mr. Nestor, as he joined Ned on deck.

"Bless my insurance policy!" cried Mr. Damon. "What a strange
happening! Where's Tom Swift?"

"Gone for his camera," answered his chum. "He's going to get some
pictures of the rescue."

"All hands man the life boats!" cried an officer, and several sailors
sprang to the davits, ready to lower the boats, when the steamers
should be near enough together.

Up on deck came Tom, with his wonderful camera.

"Here you go, Ned!" he called. "Give me a hand. I'm going to start the
film now."




CHAPTER XI

AN ELEPHANT STAMPEDE


"Lower away!"

"Stand by the life boats!"

"Let go! Pull hearty!"

These and other commands marked the beginning of the rescue, as the
sailors manned the davit-falls, and put the boats into the water. The
burning steamer had now come to a stop, not far away from the Belchar,
which was also lay-to. There was scarcely any sea running, and no wind,
so that the work of rescuing was not difficult from an ordinary
standpoint. But there was grave danger, because the fire on the doomed
vessel was gaining rapidly.

"That's oil burning," remarked an officer, and it seemed so, from the
dense clouds of smoke that rolled upward.

"Is she working, Tom?" asked Ned, as he helped his chum to hold the
wonderful camera steady on the rail, so that a good view of the burning
steamer could be had.

"Yes, the film is running. Say, I wonder if they'll get 'em all off?"

"Oh, I think so. There aren't many passengers. I guess it's a tramp
freighter."

They could look across the gap of water, and see the terrified
passengers and crew crowding to the rail, holding out their hands
appealingly to the brave sailors who were lustily and rapidly, pulling
toward them in life boats.

At times a swirl of smoke would hide those on the doomed vessel from
the sight of the passengers on the Belchar, and on such occasions the
frightened screams of women could be heard. Once, as the smoke cleared
away, a woman, with a child in her arms, giving a backward glance
toward the flames that were now enveloping the stern of the vessel,
attempted to leap overboard.

Many hands caught her, however, and all this was registered on the film
of Tom's camera, which was working automatically. As the two vessels
drifted along, Tom and Ned shifted the lens so as to keep the burning
steamer, and the approaching lifeboats, in focus.

"There's the first rescue!" cried Ned, as the woman who had attempted
to leap overboard, was, with her child, carefully lowered into a boat.
"Did you get that, Tom?"

"I certainly did. This will make a good picture. I think I'll send it
back to Mr. Period as soon as we reach port."

"Maybe you could develop it on board here, and show it. I understand
there's a dark room, and the captain said one of his officers, who used
to be in the moving picture business, had a reproducing machine."

"Then that's what I'll do!" cried Tom. "I'll have our captain charge
all the Belchar passengers admission, and we'll get up a fund for the
fire sufferers. They'll probably lose all their baggage."

"That will be great!" exclaimed Ned.

The rescue was now in full swing, and, in a short time all the
passengers and crew had been transferred to the life boats. Tom got a
good picture of the captain of the burning steamer being the last to
leave his vessel. Then the approaching life boats, with their loads of
sailors, and rescued ones, were caught on the films.

"Are you all off?" cried the captain of the Belchar to the unfortunate
skipper of the doomed ship.

"All off, yes, thank you. It is a mercy you were at hand. I have a
cargo of oil. You had better stand off, for she'll explode in a few
minutes."

"I must get a picture of that!" declared Tom as the Belchar got under
way again. "That will cap the climax, and make a film that will be hard
to beat."

A few moments later there was a tremendous explosion on the tramp
oiler. A column of wreckage and black smoke shot skyward, and Tom
secured a fine view of it. Then the wreck disappeared beneath the
waves, while the rescuing steamer sailed on, with those who had been
saved. They had brought off only the things they wore, for the fire had
occurred suddenly, and spread rapidly. Kind persons aboard the Belchar
looked after the unfortunates. Luckily there was not a large passenger
list on the tramp. And the crew was comparatively small, so it was not
hard work to make room for them, or take care of them, aboard the
Belchar.

Tom developed his pictures, and produced them in one of the large
saloons, on a machine he borrowed from the man of whom Ned had spoken.
A dollar admission was charged, and the crowd was so large that Tom had
to give two performances. The films, showing the burning steamer and
the rescue, were excellent, and enough money was realized to aid, most
substantially, the unfortunate passengers and crew.

A few days later a New York bound steamer was spoken, and on it Tom
sent the roll of developed films to Mr. Period, with a letter of
explanation.

I will not give all the details of the rest of the voyage.  Sufficient
to say that no accidents marred it, nor did Tom discover any suspicious
characters aboard. In due time our friends arrived at Calcutta, and
were met by an agent of Mr. Period, for he had men in all quarters of
the world, making films for him.

This agent took Tom and his party to a hotel, and arranged to have the
airship parts sent to a  large open shed, not far away, where it could
be put together. The wonderful scenes in the Indian city interested Tom
and his companions for a time, but they had observed so many strange
sights from time to time that they did not marvel greatly. Koku,
however, was much delighted.  He was like a child.

"What are you going to do first?" asked Ned, when they had recovered
from the fatigue of the ocean voyage and had settled themselves in the
hotel.

"Put the airship together," replied our hero, "and then, after getting
some Durbar pictures, we'll head for the jungle. I want to get some
elephant pictures, showing the big beasts being captured."

Mr. Period's agent was a great help to them in this. He secured native
helpers, who aided Tom in assembling the airship, and in a week or two
it was ready for a flight. The wonderful camera, too, was looked over,
and the picture agent said he had never seen a better one.

"It can take the kind of pictures I never could," he said. "I get
Calcutta street scenes for Mr. Period, and occasionally I strike a good
one. But I wish I had your chance."

Tom invited him to come along in the airship, but the agent, who only
looked after Mr. Period's interests as a side issue, could not leave
his work.

The airship was ready for a flight, stores and provisions had been put
on board, there was enough gasoline for the motor, and gas for the
balloon bag, to carry the Flyer thousands of miles.  The moving picture
camera had been tested after the sea voyage, and had been found to work
perfectly. Many rolls of films were taken along. Tom got some fine
views of the Durbar of India, and his airship created a great sensation.

"Now I guess we're all ready for the elephants," said Tom one day as he
came back from an inspection of the airship as it rested in the big
shed. "We'll start to-morrow morning, and head for the jungle."

Amid the cries from a throng of wondering and awed natives, and with
the farewells of Mr. Period's agent ringing in their ears, Tom and his
party made an early start. The Flyer rose like a bird, and shot across
the city, while on the house tops many people watched the strange
sight. Tom did not start his camera working, as Mr. Period's agent said
he had made many pictures of the Indian city, and even one taken from
an airship, would not be much of a novelty.

Tom had made inquiries, and learned that by a day's travel in his
airship (though it would have been much longer ordinarily) he could
reach a jungle where elephants might be found. Of course there was
nothing certain about it, as the big animals roamed all over, being in
one district one day, and on the next, many miles off.

Gradually the city was left behind, and some time later the airship was
sailing along over the jungle. After the start, when Ned and Tom, with
Mr. Damon helping occasionally, had gotten the machinery into proper
adjustment, the Flyer almost ran herself.  Then Tom took his station
forward, with his camera in readiness, and a powerful spyglass at hand,
so that he might see the elephants from a distance.

He had been told that, somewhere in the district for which he was
headed, an elephant drive was contemplated. He hoped to be on hand to
get pictures of it, and so sent his airship ahead at top speed.

On and on they rode, being as much at ease in the air as they would
have been if traveling in a parlor car. They did not fly high, as it
was necessary to be fairly close to the earth to get good pictures.

"Well, I guess we won't have any luck to-day," remarked Ned, as night
approached, and they had had no sight of the elephants.  They had gone
over mile after mile of jungle, but had seen few wild beasts in
sufficient numbers to make it worth while to focus the camera on them.

"We'll float along to-night," decided Tom, "and try again in the
morning."

It was about ten o'clock the next day, when Ned, who had relieved Tom
on watch, uttered a cry:

"What is it?" asked his chum, as he rushed forward. "Has anything
happened?"

"Lots!" cried Ned. "Look!" He pointed down below. Tom saw, crashing
through the jungle, a big herd of elephants. Behind them, almost
surrounding them, in fact, was a crowd of natives in charge of white
hunters, who were driving the herd toward a stockade.

"There's a chance for a grand picture!" exclaimed Tom, as he got the
camera ready. "Take charge of the ship, Ned. Keep her right over the
big animals, and I'll work the camera."

Quickly he focused the lens on the strange scene below him.  There was
a riot of trumpeting from the elephants. The beaters and hunters
shouted and yelled. Then they saw the airship and waved their hands to
Tom and his friends, but whether to welcome them, or warn them away,
could not be told.

The elephants were slowly advancing toward the stockade. Tom was taking
picture after picture of them, when suddenly as the airship came lower,
in response to a signal to Ned from the young inventor, one of the huge
pachyderms looked up, and saw the strange sight. He might have taken it
for an immense bird. At any rate he gave a trumpet of alarm, and the
next minute, with screams of rage and fear, the elephants turned, and
charged in a wild stampede on those who were driving them toward the
stockade.

"Look!" cried Ned. "Those hunters and natives will be killed!"

"I'm afraid so!" shouted Tom, as he continued to focus his camera on
the wonderful sight.




CHAPTER XII

THE LION FIGHT


Crashing through the jungle the huge beasts turned against those who
had, been driving them on toward the stockade. With wild shouts and
yells, the hunters and their native helpers tried to turn back the
elephant tide, but it was useless. The animals had been frightened by
the airship, and were following their leader, a big bull, that went
crashing against great trees, snapping them off as if they were pipe
stems.

"Say, this is something like!" cried Ned, as he guided the airship over
the closely packed body of elephants, so Tom could get good pictures,
for the herd had divided, and a small number had gone off with one of
the other bulls.

"Yes, I'll get some great pictures," agreed Tom, as he looked in
through a red covered opening in the camera, to see how much film was
left.

The airship was now so low down that Tom, and the others, could easily
make out the faces of the hunters, and the native helpers.  One of the
hunters, evidently the chief, shaking his fist at our hero, cried:

"Can't you take your blooming ship out of the way, my man? It's scaring
the beasts, and we've been a couple of weeks on this drive. We don't
want to lose all our work. Take your bloody ship away!"

"I guess he must be an Englishman," remarked Mr. Nestor, with a laugh.

"Bless my dictionary, I should say so," agreed Mr. Damon.  "Bloody,
blooming ship! The idea!"

"Well, I suppose we have scared the beasts," said Tom. "We ought to get
out of the way. Put her up, Ned, and we'll come down some distance in
advance."

"Why, aren't you going to take any more views of the elephants?"

"Yes, but I've got enough of a view from above. Besides, I've got to
put in a fresh reel of film, and I might as well get out of their sight
to do it. Maybe that will quiet them, and the hunters can turn them
back toward the stockade. If they do, I have another plan."

"What is it?" his chum wanted to know.

"I'm going to make a landing, set up my camera at the entrance to the
stockade, and get a series of pictures as the animals come in. I think
that will be a novelty.

"That certainly will," agreed Mr. Nestor. "I am sure Mr. Period will
appreciate that. But won't it be dangerous, Tom?"

"I suppose so, but I'm getting used to danger," replied our hero, with
a laugh.

Ned put the ship high into the air, as Tom shut off the power from the
camera. Then the Flyer was sent well on in advance of the stampede of
elephants, so they could no longer see it, or hear the throb of the
powerful engines. Tom hoped that this would serve to quiet the immense
creatures.

As the travelers flew on, over the jungle, they could still hear the
racket made by the hunters and beaters, and the shrill trumpeting of
the elephants, as they crashed through the forest.

Tom at once began changing the film in the camera, and Ned altered the
course of the airship, to send it back toward the stockade, which they
had passed just before coming upon the herd of elephants.

I presume most of my readers know what an elephant drive is like. A
stockade, consisting of heavy trees, is made in the jungle. It is like
the old fashioned forts our forefathers used to make, for a defense
against the Indians. There is a broad entrance to it, and, when all is
in readiness, the beaters go out into the jungle, with the white
hunters, to round up the elephants. A number of tame pachyderms are
taken along to persuade the wild ones to follow.

Gradually the elephants are gathered together in a large body, and
gently driven toward the stockade. The tame elephants go in first, and
the others follow. Then the entrance is closed, and all that remains to
be done is to tame the wild beasts, a not very easy task.

"Are you all ready?" asked Ned, after a bit, as he saw Tom come forward
with the camera.

"Yes, I'm loaded for some more excitement. You can put me right over
the stockade now, Ned, and when we see the herd coming back I'll go
down, and take some views from the ground."

"I think they've got 'em turned," said Mr. Damon. "It sounds as if they
were coming back this way."

A moment later they had a glimpse of the herd down below. It was true
that the hunters had succeeded in stopping the stampede, and once more
the huge beasts were going in the right direction.

"There's a good place to make a landing," suggested Tom, as he saw a
comparatively clear place in the jungle. "It's near the stockade, and,
in case of danger, I can make a quick get-away."

"What kind of danger are you looking for?" asked Ned, as he shifted the
deflecting rudder.

"Oh, one of the beasts might take a notion to chase me."

The landing was made, and Tom, taking Ned and Mr. Nestor with him, and
leaving the others to manage the airship in case a quick flight would
be necessary, made his way along a jungle trail to the entrance to the
stockade. He carried his camera with him, for it was not heavy.

On came the elephants, frightened by the shouts and cries of the
beaters, and the firing of guns. The young inventor took his place near
the stockade entrance, and, as the elephants advanced through the
forest, tearing up trees and bushes, Tom got some good pictures of them.

Suddenly the advance of the brutes was checked, and the foremost of
them raised their trunks, trumpeted in anger, and were about to turn
back again.

"Get away from that bloomin' gate!" shouted a hunter to Tom.  "You're
scaring them as bad as your airship did."

"Yes, they won't go in with you there!" added another man.

Tom slipped around the corner of the stockade, out of sight, and from
that vantage point he took scores of pictures, as the tame animals led
the wild ones into the fenced enclosure. Then began another wild scene
as the gate was closed.

The terrified animals rushed about, trying in vain to find a way of
escape. Tom managed to climb up on top of the logs, and got some
splendid pictures. But this was nearly his undoing. For, just as the
last elephant rushed in, a big bull charged against the stockade, and
jarred Tom so that he was on the point of falling. His one thought was
about his camera, and he looked to see if he could drop it on the soft
grass, so it would not be damaged.

He saw Koku standing below him, the giant having slipped out of the
airship, to see the beasts at closer range.

"Catch this, Koku!" cried Tom, tossing the big man his precious camera,
and the giant caught it safely. But Tom's troubles were not over. A
moment later, as the huge elephant again rammed the fence, Tom fell
off, but fortunately outside. Then the large beast, seeing a small
opening in the gate that was not yet entirely closed, made for it. A
moment later he was rushing straight at Tom, who was somewhat stunned
by his fall, though it was not a severe one.

"Look out!" yelled Ned.

"Take a tree, Tom!" cried Mr. Nestor.

The elephant paid no attention to any one but Tom, whom he seemed to
think had caused all his trouble. The young inventor dashed to one
side, and then started to run toward the airship, for which Ned and Mr.
Nestor were already making. The elephant hunters at last succeeded in
closing the gate, blocking the chance of any more animals to escape.

"Run, Tom! Run!" yelled Ned, and Tom ran as he had never run before.
The elephant was close after him though, crashing through the jungle.
Tom could see the airship just ahead of him.

Suddenly he felt something grasp him from behind. He thought surely it
was the elephant's trunk, but a quick glance over his shoulder showed
him the friendly face of Koku, the giant.

"Me run for you," said Koku, as he caught Tom up under one arm, and,
carrying the camera under the other, he set off at top speed. Now Koku
could run well at times, and this time he did. He easily outdistanced
the elephant, and, a little later, he set Tom down on the deck of the
airship, with the camera beside him. Then Ned and Mr. Nestor came up
panting, having run to one side.

"Quick!" cried Tom. "We must get away before the elephant charges the
Flyer."

"He has stopped," shouted Mr. Nestor, and it was indeed so. The big
beast, seeing again the strange craft that had frightened him before,
stood still for a moment, and then plunged off into the jungle,
trumpeting with rage.

"Safe!" gasped Tom, as he looked at his camera to see if it had been
damaged. It seemed all right.

"Bless my latch key!" cried Mr. Damon. "This moving picture business
isn't the most peaceful one in the world."

"No, it has plenty of perils," agreed Mr. Nestor.

"Come on, let's get out of here while we have the chance," suggested
Tom. "There may be another herd upon us before we know it."

The airship was soon ascending, and Tom and his companions could look
down and see the tame elephants in the stockade trying to calm the wild
ones. Then the scene faded from sight.

"Well, if these pictures come out all right I'll have some fine ones,"
exclaimed Tom as he carried his camera to the room where he kept the
films. "I fancy an elephant drive and stampede are novelties in this
line."

"Indeed they are," agreed Mr. Nestor. "Mr. Period made no mistake when
he picked you out, Tom, for this work. What are you going to try for
next?"

"I'd like to get some lion and tiger pictures," said the young
inventor. "I understand this is a good district for that. As soon as
those elephants get quieted down, I'm going back to the stockade and
have a talk with the hunters."

This he did, circling about in the airship until nearly evening. When
they again approached the stockade all was quiet, and they came to
earth. A native showed them where the white hunters had their
headquarters, in some bungalows, and Tom and his party were made
welcome. They apologized for frightening the big beasts, and the
hunters accepted their excuses.

"As long as we got 'em, it's all right," said the head man, "though for
awhile, I didn't like your bloomin' machine." Tom entertained the
hunters aboard his craft, at which they marvelled much, and they gave
him all the information they had about the lions and tigers in the
vicinity.

"You won't find lions and tigers in herds, like elephants though," said
the head hunter. "And you may have to photograph 'em at night, as then
is when they come out to hunt, and drink."

"Well, I can take pictures at night," said Tom, as he showed his camera
apparatus.

The next day, in the airship, they left for another district, where, so
the natives reported, several lions had been seen of late. They had
done much damage, too, carrying off the native cattle, and killing
several Indians.

For nearly a week Tom circled about in his airship, keeping a sharp
lookout down below for a sign of lions that he might photograph them.
But he saw none, though he did get some pictures of a herd of Indian
deer that were well worth his trouble.

"I think I'll have to try for a night photograph," decided Tom at last.
"I'll locate a spring where wild beasts are in the habit of coming, set
the camera with the light going, and leave it there."

"But will the lions come up if they see the light?" asked Ned.

"I think so," replied his chum. "I'll take a chance, anyhow. If that
doesn't work then I'll hide near by, and see what happens."

"Bless my cartridge belt!" cried Mr. Damon.  "You don't mean that; do
you Tom?"

"Of course. Come to think of it, I'm not going to leave my camera out
there for a lion to jump on, and break. As soon as I get a series of
pictures I'll bring it back to the ship, I think."

By inquiry among the natives they learned the location of a spring
where, it was said, lions were in the habit of coming nightly to drink.

"That's the place I want!" cried Tom.

Accordingly the airship was headed for it, and one evening it came
gently to earth in a little clearing on the edge of the jungle, while
Koku, as was his habit, got supper.

After the meal Tom and Ned set the camera, and then, picking out a good
spot nearby, they hid themselves to wait for what might happen. The
lens was focused on the spring, and the powerful electric light set
going. It glowed brightly, and our hero thought it might have the
effect of keeping the beasts away, but Tom figured that, after they had
looked at it for a while, and seen that it did not harm them, they
would lose their suspicions, and come within range of his machine.

"The camera will do the rest," he said. In order not to waste films
uselessly Tom arranged a long electric wire, running it from the camera
to where he and Ned were hid. By pressing a button he could start or
stop the camera any time he wished, and, as he had a view of the spring
from his vantage point, he could have the apparatus begin taking
pictures as soon as there was some animal within focus.

"Well, I'm getting stiff," said Ned, after an hour or so had passed in
silent darkness, the only light being the distant one on the camera.

"So am I," said Tom.

"I don't believe anything will come to-night," went on his chum. "Let's
go back and--"

He stopped suddenly, for there was a crackling in the underbrush, and
the next moment the jungle vibrated to the mighty roar of a lion.

"He's coming!" hoarsely whispered Tom.

Both lads glanced through the trees toward the camera, and, in the
light, they saw a magnificent, tawny beast standing on the edge of the
spring. Once more he roared, as if in defiance, and then, as if
deciding that the light was not harmful, he stooped to lap up the water.

Hardly had he done so than there was another roar, and a moment later a
second lion leaped from the dense jungle into the clearing about the
spring. The two monarchs of the forest stood there in the glare of the
light, and Tom excitedly pressed the button that started the shutter to
working, and the film to moving back of the lens.

There was a slight clicking sound in the camera, and the lions turned
startedly. Then both growled again, and the next instant they sprang at
each other, roaring mightily.

"A fight!" cried Tom. "A lion fight, and right in front of my camera!
It couldn't be better. This is great! This will be a film."

"Quiet!" begged Ned. "They'll hear you, and come for us. I don't want
to be chewed up!"

"No danger of them hearing me!" cried Tom, and he had to shout to be
heard above the roaring of the two tawny beasts, as they bit and clawed
each other, while the camera took picture after picture of them.




CHAPTER XIII

A SHOT IN TIME


"Tom, did you ever see anything like it in your life?"

"I never did, Ned! It's wonderful! fearful! And to think that we are
here watching it, and that thousands of people will see the same thing
thrown on a screen. Oh, look at the big one. The small lion has him
down!"

The two lads, much thrilled, crouched down behind a screen of bushes,
watching the midnight fight between the lions. On the airship, not far
distant, there was no little alarm, for those left behind heard the
terrific roars, and feared Tom and Ned might be in some danger. But the
lions were too much occupied with their battle, to pay any attention to
anything else, and no other wild beasts were likely to come to the
spring while the two "kings" were at each other.

It was a magnificent, but terrible battle. The big cats bit and tore at
each other, using their terrific claws and their powerful paws, one
stroke of which is said to be sufficient to break a bullock's back.
Sometimes they would roll out of the focus of the camera, and, at such
times, Tom wished he was at the machine to swing the lens around, but
he knew it would be dangerous to move.  Then the beasts would roll back
into the rays of light again, and more pictures of them would be taken.

"I guess the small one is going to win!" said Tom, after the two lions
had fought for ten minutes, and the bigger one had been down several
times.

"He's younger," agreed Ned, "and I guess the other one has had his
share of fights. Maybe this is a battle to see which one is to rule
this part of the jungle."

"I guess so," spoke the young inventor, as he pressed the button to
stop the camera, as the lions rolled out of focus. "Oh, look!" he cried
a moment later, as the animals again rolled into view. Tom started the
camera once more. "This is near the end," he said.

The small lion had, by a sudden spring, landed on the back of his
rival. There was a terrific struggle, and the older beast went down,
the younger one clawing him terribly. Then, so quickly did it happen
that the boys could not take in all the details, the older lion rolled
over and over, and rid himself of his antagonist. Quickly he got to his
feet, while the smaller lion did the same. They stood for a moment
eyeing each other, their tails twitching, the hair on their backs
bristling, and all the while they uttered frightful roars.

An instant later the larger beast sprang toward his rival. One terrible
paw was upraised. The small lion tried to dodge, but was not quick
enough. Down came the paw with terrific force, and the boys could hear
the back bone snap. Then, clawing his antagonist terribly, as he lay
disabled, the older lion, with a roar of triumph, lapped up water, and
sprang off through the jungle, leaving his dying rival beside the
spring.

"That's the end," cried Tom, as the small lion died, and the young
inventor pressed the button stopping his camera. There was a rustle in
the leaves back of Tom and Ned, and they sprang up in alarm, but they
need not have feared, for it was only Koku, the giant, who, with a
portable electrical torch, had come to see how they had fared.

"Mr. Tom all right?" asked the big man, anxiously.

"Yes, and I got some fine pictures. You can carry the camera back now,
Koku. I think that roll of film is pretty well filled."

The three of them looked at the body of the dead lion, before they went
back to the airship. I have called him "small," but, in reality, the
beast was small only in comparison with his rival, who was a tremendous
lion in size. I might add that of all the pictures Tom took, few were
more highly prized than that reel of the lion fight.

"Bless my bear cage!" cried Mr. Damon, as Tom came back, "you certainly
have nerve, my boy."

"You have to, in this business," agreed Tom with a laugh. "I never did
this before, and I don't know that I would want it for a steady
position, but it's exciting for a change."

They remained near the "lion spring" as they called it all night, and
in the morning, after Koku had served a tasty breakfast, Tom headed the
airship for a district where it was said there were many antelope, and
buffaloes, also zebus.

"I don't want to get all exciting pictures," our hero said to Mr.
Nestor. "I think that films showing wild animals at play, or quietly
feeding, will be good."

"I'm sure they will," said Mary's father. "Get some peaceful scenes, by
all means."

They sailed on for several days, taking a number of pictures from the
airship, when they passed over a part of the country where the view was
magnificent, and finally, stopping at a good sized village they learned
that, about ten miles out, was a district where antelope abounded.

"We'll go there," decided Tom, "and I'll take the camera around with me
on a sort of walking trip. In that way I'll get a variety of views, and
I can make a good film."

This plan was followed out. The airship came to rest in a beautiful
green valley, and Ned and Tom, with Mr. Damon, who begged to be taken
along, started off.

"You can follow me in about half an hour, Koku," said Tom, "and carry
the camera back. I guess you can easily pick up our trail."

"Oh, sure," replied the giant. Indeed, to one who had lived in the
forest, as he had all his life, before Tom found him, it was no
difficult matter to follow a trail, such as the three friends would
leave.

Tom found signs that showed him where the antelopes were in the habit
of passing, and, with Ned and Mr. Damon, stationed himself in a
secluded spot.

He had not long to wait before a herd of deer came past. Tom took many
pictures of the graceful creatures, for it was daylight now, and he
needed no light. Consequently there was nothing to alarm the herd.

After having made several films of the antelope, Tom and his two
companions went farther on. They were fortunate enough to find a place
that seemed to be a regular playground of the deer.  There was a large
herd there, and, getting as near as he dared, Tom focused his camera,
and began taking pictures.

"It's as good as a play," whispered Mr. Damon, as he and Ned watched
the creatures, for they had to speak quietly. The camera made scarcely
any noise. "I'm glad I came on this trip."

"So am I," said Ned. "Look, Tom, see the mother deer all together, and
the fawns near them. It's just as if it was a kindergarten meeting."

"I see," whispered Tom. "I'm getting a picture of that."

For some little time longer Tom photographed the deer, and then,
suddenly, the timid creatures all at once lifted up their heads, and
darted off. Tom and Ned, wondering what had startled them, looked
across the glade just in time to see a big tiger leap out of the tall
grass. The striped animal had been stalking the antelope, but they had
scented him just in time.

"Get him, Tom," urged Ned, and the young inventor did so, securing
several fine views before the tiger bounded into the grass again, and
took after his prey.

"Bless my china teacup! What's that!" suddenly cried Mr. Damon.  As he
spoke there was a crashing in the bushes and, an instant later as
two-horned rhinoceros sprang into view, charging straight for the group.

"Look out!" yelled Ned.

"Bless my--" began Mr. Damon, but he did not finish, for, in starting
to run his foot caught in the grass, and he went down heavily.

Tom leaped to one side, holding his camera so as not to damage it. But
he stumbled over Mr. Damon, and went down.

With a "wuff" of rage the clumsy beast, came on, moving more rapidly
than Tom had any idea he was capable of. Hampered by his camera our
hero could not arise. The rhinoceros was almost upon him, and Ned,
catching up a club, was just going to make a rush to the rescue, when
the brute seemed suddenly to crumple up. It fell down in a heap, not
five feet from where Tom and Mr. Damon lay.

"Good!" cried Ned. "He's dead. Shot through the heart! Who did it?"

"I did," answered Koku quietly, stepping out of the bushes, with one of
Tom's Swift's electric rifles in his hand.




CHAPTER XIV

IN A GREAT GALE


Tom Swift rose slowly to his feet, carefully setting his camera down,
after making sure that it was not injured. Then he looked at the huge
beast which lay dead in front of him, and, going over to the giant he
held out his hand to him.

"Koku, you saved my life," spoke Tom. "Probably the life of Mr. Damon
also. I can't begin to thank you. It isn't the first time you've done
it, either. But I want to say that you can have anything you want, that
I've got."

"Me like this gun pretty much," said the giant simply.

"Then it's yours!" exclaimed Tom. "And you're the only one, except
myself, who has ever owned one." Tom's wonderful electric rifle, of
which I have told you in the book bearing that name, was one of his
most cherished inventions.

He guarded jealously the secret of how it worked, and never sold or
gave one away, for fear that unscrupulous men might learn how to make
them, and to cause fearful havoc. For the rifle was a terrible weapon.
Koku seemed to appreciate the honor done him, as he handled the gun,
and looked from it to the dead rhinoceros.

"Bless my blank cartridge!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, as he also got up and
came to examine the dead beast. It was the first thing he had said
since the animal had rushed at him, and he had not moved after he fell
down. He had seemingly been in a daze, but when the others heard him
use one of his favorite expressions they knew that he was all right
again. "Bless my hat!" went on the odd man.  "What happened, Tom? Is
that beast really dead? How did Koku come to arrive in time?"

"I guess he's dead all right," said Tom, giving the rhinoceros a kick.
"But I don't know how Koku happened to arrive in the nick of time, and
with the gun, too."

"I think maybe I see something to shoot when I come after you, like you
tell me to do," spoke the giant. "I follow your trail, but I see
nothing to shoot until I come here. Then I see that animal run for you,
and I shoot."

"And a good thing you did, too," put in Ned. "Well let's go back. My
nerves are on edge, and I want to sit quiet for a while."

"Take the camera, Koku," ordered Tom, "and I'll carry the electric
rifle--your rifle, now," he added, and the giant grinned in delight.
They reached the airship without further incident, and, after a cup of
tea, Tom took out the exposed films and put a fresh roll in his camera,
ready for whatever new might happen.

"Where is your next stopping place, Tom?" asked Ned, as they sat in the
main room of the airship that evening, talking over the events of the
day. They had decided to stay all night anchored on the ground, and
start off in the morning.

"I hardly know," answered the young inventor. "I am going to set the
camera to-night, near a small spring I saw, to get some pictures of
deer coming to drink. I may get a picture of a lion or a tiger
attacking them. If I could it would be another fine film. To-morrow I
think we will start for Switzerland. But now I'm going to get the
camera ready for a night exposure.

"Bless my check book!" cried Mr. Damon. "You don't mean to say that you
are going to stay out at a spring again, Tom, and run the chance of a
tiger getting you."

"No, I'm merely going to set the camera, attach the light and let it
work automatically this time. I've put in an extra long roll of film,
for I'm going to keep it going for a long while, and part of the time
there may be no animals there to take pictures of. No, I'm not going to
sit out to-night. I'm too tired. I'll conceal the camera in the bushes
so it won't be damaged if there's a fight. Then, as I said, we'll start
for Switzerland to-morrow."

"Switzerland!" cried Ned. "What in the world do you want to go make a
big jump like that for? And what do you expect to get in that mountain
land?"

"I'm going to try for a picture of an avalanche," said Tom.  "Mr.
Period wants one, if I can get it. It is quite a jump, but then we'll
be flying over civilized countries most of the time, and if any
accident happens we can go down and easily make repairs. We can also
get gasolene for the motor, though I have quite a supply in the tanks,
and perhaps enough for the entire trip. At the same time we won't take
any chances. So we'll be off for Switzerland in the morning.

"I think some avalanche pictures will be great, if you can get them,"
remarked Mr. Nestor. "But, Tom, you know those big slides of ice, snow
and earth aren't made to order."

"Oh, I know," agreed the young inventor with a smile. "I'll just have
to take my chances, and wait until one happens."

"Bless my insurance policy!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "And when it does
happen, Tom, are you going to stand in front of it, and snap-shot it?"

"Indeed I'm not. This business is risky and dangerous enough, without
looking for trouble. I'm going to the mountain region, and hover around
in the air, until we see an avalanche 'happen' if that is the right
word. Then I'll focus the camera on it, and the films and machinery
will do the rest."

"Oh, that's different," remarked the odd man, with an air of relief.

Tom and Ned soon had the camera set near the spring and then, everyone
being tired with the day's work and excitement, they retired. In the
morning there were signs around the spring that many animals had been
there in the night. There were also marks as if there had been a fight,
but of course what sort, or how desperate, no one could say.

"If anything happened the camera got it, I'm sure of that much,"
remarked Tom, as he brought in the apparatus. "I'm not going to develop
the roll, for I don't want to take the time now. I guess we must have
something, anyhow."

"If there isn't it won't so much matter for you have plenty of other
good views," said Mr. Nestor.

I will not go into details of the long trip to Switzerland, where, amid
the mountains of that country, Tom hoped to get the view he wanted.

Sufficient to say that the airship made good time after leaving India.
Sometimes Tom sent the craft low down, in order to get views, and
again, it would be above the clouds.

"Well, another day will bring us there," said Tom one evening, as he
was loading the camera with a fresh roll of films. "Then we'll have to
be on the lookout for an avalanche."

"Yes, we're making pretty good time," remarked Ned, as he looked at the
speed gage. "I didn't know you had the motor working so fast, Tom."

"I haven't," was the young inventor's answer, as he looked up in
surprise. "Why, we are going quite fast! It's the wind, Ned.  It's
right with us, and it's carrying us along."

Tom arose and went to the anemometer, or wind-registering instrument.
He gave a low whistle, half of alarm.

"Fifty miles an hour she's blowing now," he said. "It came on suddenly,
too, for a little while ago it was only ten."

"Is there any danger?" asked Mr. Nestor, for he was not very familiar
with airship perils.

"Well, we've been in big blows before, and we generally came out all
right," returned Tom. "Still, I don't like this. Why she went up five
points since I've been looking at it!" and he pointed to the needle of
the gage, which now registered fifty-five miles an hour.

"Bless my appendix!" gasped Mr. Damon. "It's a hurricane Tom!"

"Something like that," put in Ned, in a low voice.

With a suddenness that was startling, the wind increased in violence
still more. Tom ran to the pilot house.

"What are you going to do?" Ned called.

"See if we can't go down a bit," was Tom's answer. "I don't like this.
It may be calmer below. We're up too high as it is."

He tried to throw over the lever controlling the deflecting rudder,
which would send the Flyer down, but he could not move it.

"Give me a hand!" he called to Ned, but even the strength of the two
lads was not sufficient to shift it.

"Call Koku!" gasped Tom. "If anybody can budge it the giant can!"

Meanwhile the airship was being carried onward in the grip of a mighty
wind, so strong that its pressure on the surface of the deflecting
rudder prevented it from being shifted.




CHAPTER XV

SNAPPING AN AVALANCHE


"Bless my thermometer!" gasped Mr. Damon. "This is terrible!" The
airship was plunging and swaying about in the awful gale.  "Can't
something be done, Tom?"

"What has happened?" cried Mr. Nestor. "We were on a level keel before.
What is it?"

"It's the automatic balancing rudder!" answered Tom. "Something has
happened to it. The wind may have broken it! Come on, Ned!" and he led
the way to the engine room.

"What are you going to do? Don't you want Koku to shift the deflecting
rudder? Here he is," Ned added, as the giant came forward, in response
to a signal bell that Tom's chum had rung.

"It's too late to try the deflecting rudder!" tried Tom. "I must see
what is the matter with our balancer." As he spoke the ship gave a
terrific plunge, and the occupants were thrown sideways. The next
moment it was on a level keel again, scudding along with the gale, but
there was no telling when the craft would again nearly capsize.

Tom looked at the mechanism controlling the equalizing and equilibrium
rudder. It was out of order, and he guessed that the terrific wind was
responsible for it.

"What can we do?" cried Ned, as the airship nearly rolled over.  "Can't
we do anything, Tom?"

"Yes. I'm going to try. Keep calm now. We may come out all right. This
is the worst blow we've been in since we were in Russia. Start the gas
machine full blast. I want all the vapor I can get."

As I have explained the Flyer was a combined dirigible balloon and
aeroplane. It could be used as either, or both, in combination. At
present the gas bag was not fully inflated, and Tom had been sending
his craft along as an aeroplane.

"What are you going to do?" cried Ned, as he pulled over the lever that
set the gas generating machine in operation.

"I'm going up as high as I can go!" cried Tom. "If we can't go down we
must go up. I'll get above the hurricane instead of below it. Give me
all the gas you can, Ned!"

The vapor hissed as it rushed into the big bag overhead. Tom carried
aboard his craft the chemicals needed to generate the powerful lifting
gas, of which he alone had the secret. It was more powerful than
hydrogen, and simple to make. The balloon of the Flyer was now being
distended.

Meanwhile Tom, with Koku, Mr. Damon and Mr. Nestor to help him, worked
over the deflecting rudder, and also on the equilibrium mechanism. But
they could not get either to operate.

Ned stood by the gas machine, and worked it to the limit. But even with
all that energy, so powerful was the wind, that the Flyer rose slowly,
the gale actually holding her down as a water-logged craft is held
below the waves. Ordinarily, with the gas machine set at its limit the
craft would have shot up rapidly.

At times the airship would skim along on the level, and again it would
be pitched and tossed about, until it was all the occupants could do to
keep their feet. Mr. Damon was continually blessing everything he could
remember.

"Now she's going!" suddenly cried Ned, as he looked at the dials
registering the pressure of the gas, and showing the height of the
airship above the earth.

"Going how?" gasped Tom, as he looked over from where he was working at
the equilibrium apparatus. "Going down?"

"Going up!" shouted Ned. "I guess we'll be all right soon!"

It was true. Now that the bag was filled with the powerful lifting gas,
under pressure, the Flyer was beginning to get out of the dangerous
predicament into which the gale had blown her. Up and up she went, and
every foot she climbed the power of the wind became less.

"Maybe it all happened for the best," said Tom, as he noted the height
gage. "If we had gone down, the wind might have been worse nearer the
earth."

Later they learned that this was so. The most destructive wind storm
ever known swept across the southern part of Europe, over which they
were flying that night, and, had the airship gone down, she would
probably have been destroyed. But, going up, she got above the
wind-strata. Up and up she climbed, until, when three miles above the
earth, she was in a calm zone. It was rather hard to breathe at this
height, and Tom set the oxygen apparatus at work.

This created in the interior of the craft an atmosphere almost like
that on the earth, and the travelers were made more at their ease.
Getting out of the terrible wind pressure made it possible to work the
deflecting rudder, though Tom had no idea of going down, as long as the
blow lasted.

"We'll just sail along at this height until morning," he said, "and by
then the gale may be over, or we may be beyond the zone of it. Start
the propellers, Ned. I think I can manage to repair the equilibrium
rudder now."

The propellers, which gave the forward motion to the airship, had been
stopped when it was found that the wind was carrying her along, but
they were now put in motion again, sending the Flyer forward. In a
short time Tom had the equilibrium machine in order, and matters were
now normal again.

"But that was a strenuous time while it lasted," remarked the young
inventor, as he sat down.

"It sure was," agreed Ned.

"Bless my pen wiper!" cried Mr. Damon. "That was one of the few times
when I wish I'd never come with you, Tom Swift," and everyone laughed
at that.

The Flyer was now out of danger, going along high in the air through
the night, while the gale raged below her. At Tom's suggestion, Koku
got a lunch ready, for they were all tired with their labors, and
somewhat nervous from the danger and excitement.

"And now for sleep!" exclaimed Tom, as he pushed back his plate. "Ned,
set the automatic steering gear, and we'll see where we bring up by
morning."

An examination, through a powerful telescope in the bright light of
morning, showed the travelers that they were over the outskirts of a
large city, which, later, they learned was Rome, Italy.

"We've made a good trip," said Tom. "The gale had us worried, but it
sent us along at a lively clip. Now for Switzerland, and the
avalanches!"

They made a landing at a village just outside the "Holy City," as Rome
is often called, and renewed their supply of gasolene.  Naturally they
attracted a crowd of curious persons, many of whom had never seen an
airship before. Certainly few of them had ever seen one like Tom
Swift's.

The next day found them hovering over the Alps, where Tom hoped to be
able to get the pictures of snow slides. They went down to earth at a
town near one of the big mountain ranges, and there made inquiries as
to where would be the best location to look for big avalanches. If they
went but a few miles to the north, they were told, they would be in the
desired region, and they departed for that vicinity.

"And now we've just got to take our time, and wait for an avalanche to
happen," remarked Tom, as they were flying along over the mountain
ranges. "As Mr. Damon said, these things aren't made to order. They
just happen."

For three days they sailed in and out over the great snow-covered peaks
of the Alps. They did not go high up, for they wanted to be near earth
when an avalanche would occur, so that near-view pictures could be
secured. Occasionally they saw parties of mountain climbers ascending
some celebrated peak, and for want of something better to photograph,
Tom "snapped" the tourists.

"Well, I guess they're all out of avalanches this season," remarked Ned
one afternoon, when they had circled back and forth over a mountain
where, so it was said, the big snow slides were frequent.

"It does seem so," agreed Tom. "Still, we're in no hurry. It is easier
to be up here, than it is walking around in a jungle, not knowing what
minute a tiger may jump out at you."

"Bless my rubbers, yes!" agreed Mr. Damon.

The sky was covered with lowering clouds, and there were occasionally
flurries of snow. Tom's airship was well above the snow line on the
mountains. The young inventor and Ned sat in the pilot house, taking
observations through a spyglass of the mountain chain below them.

Suddenly Ned, who had the glass focused on a mighty peak, cried out:

"There she is, Tom!"

"What?"

"The avalanche! The snow is beginning to slide down the mountain! Say,
it's going to be a big one, too. Got your camera ready?"

"Sure! I've had it ready for the last three days. Put me over there,
Ned. You look after the airship, and I'll take the pictures!"

Tom sprang to get his apparatus, while his chum hurried to the levers,
wheels and handles that controlled the Flyer. As they approached the
avalanche they could see the great mass of ice, snow, big stones, and
earth sliding down the mountain side, carrying tall trees with it.

"This is just what I wanted!" cried Tom, as he set his camera working.
"Put me closer, Ned."

Ned obeyed, and the airship was now hovering directly over the
avalanche, and right in its path. The big landslide, as it would have
been called in this country, met no village in its path, fortunately,
or it would have wiped it out completely. It was in a wild and desolate
region that it occurred.

"I want to get a real close view!" cried Tom, as he got some pictures
showing a whole grove of giant trees uprooted and carried off. "Get
closer Ned, and--"

Tom was interrupted by a cry of alarm from his chum.

"We're falling!" yelled Ned. "Something has gone wrong. We're going
down into the avalanche!".




CHAPTER XVI

TELEGRAPH ORDERS


There was confusion aboard the airship. Tom, hearing Ned's cry, left
his camera, to rush to the engine room, but not before he had set the
picture apparatus to working automatically. Mr. Damon, Mr. Nestor and
Koku, alarmed by Ned's cries, ran back from the forward part of the
craft, where they had been watching the mighty mass of ice and earth as
it rushed down the side of the mountain.

"What's wrong, Ned?" cried Tom excitedly.

"I don't know! The propellers have stopped! We were running as an
aeroplane you know. Now we're going down!"

"Bless my suspenders!" shouted Mr. Damon. "If we land in the midst of
that conglomeration of ice it will be the end of us."

"But we're not going to land there!" cried Tom.

"How are you going to stop it?" demanded Mr. Nestor.

"By the gas machine!" answered Tom. "That will stop us from falling.
Start it up, Ned!"

"That's right! I always forget about that! I'll have it going in a
second!"

"Less than a second," called Tom, as he saw how near to the mighty,
rushing avalanche they were coming.

Ned worked rapidly, and in a very short time the downward course of the
airship was checked. It floated easily above the rushing flood of ice
and earth, and Tom, seeing that his craft, and those on it, were safe,
hurried back to his camera. Meanwhile the machine had automatically
been taking pictures, but now with the young inventor to manage it,
better results would be obtained.

Tom aimed it here and there, at the most spectacular parts of the
avalanche. The others gathered around him, after Ned had made an
inspection, and found that a broken electrical wire had caused the
propellers to stop. This was soon repaired and then, as they were
hanging in the air like a balloon, Tom took picture after picture of
the wonderful sight below them. Forest after forest was demolished.

"This will be a great film!" Tom shouted to Ned, as the latter informed
him that the machinery was all right again. "Send me up a little. I
want to get a view from the top, looking down."

His chum made the necessary adjustments to the mechanism and then,
there being nothing more to slide down the mountainside the avalanche
was ended. But what a mass of wreck and ruin there was!  It was as if a
mighty earthquake had torn the mountain asunder.

"It's a good thing it wasn't on a side of the mountain where people
lived," commented Ned, as the airship rose high toward the clouds. "If
it had been, there'd be nothing left of 'em. What hair-raising stunt
are you going to try next, Tom?"

"I don't know. I expect to hear from Mr. Period soon.

"Hear from Mr. Period?" exclaimed Mr. Nestor. "How are you going to do
that, Tom?"

"He said he would telegraph me at Berne, Switzerland, at a certain
date, as he knew I was coming to the Alps to try for some avalanche
pictures. It's two or three days yet, before I can expect the telegram,
which of course will have to come part way by cable. In the meanwhile,
I think we'll take a little rest, and a vacation. I want to give the
airship an overhauling, and look to my camera. There's no telling what
Mr. Period may want next."

"Then he didn't make out your programme completely before you started?"
asked Mr. Nestor.

"No, he said he'd communicate with me from time to time. He is in touch
with what is going on in the world, you know, and if he hears of
anything exciting at any place, I'm to go there at once.  You see he
wants the most sensational films he can get."

"Yes, our company is out to give the best pictures we can secure,"
spoke Mary's father, "and I think we are lucky to have Tom Swift
working for us. We already have films that no other concern can get.
And we need them."

"I wonder what became of those men who started to make so much trouble
for you, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Well, they seem to have disappeared," replied our hero. "Of course
they may be after me any day now, but for the time being, I've thrown
them off my track."

"So then you don't know where you're going next?" asked Ned.

"No, it may be to Japan, or to the North Pole. Well, I'm ready for
anything. We've got plenty of gasolene, and the Flyer can certainly
go," said Tom.

They went down to earth in a quiet spot, just outside of a little
village, and there they remained three days, to the no small wonder of
the inhabitants. Tom wanted to see if his camera was working properly.
So he developed some of the avalanche pictures, and found them
excellent. The rest of the time was spent in making some needed repairs
to the airship, while the young inventor overhauled his Wizard machine,
that he found needed a few adjustments.

Their arrival in Berne created quite a sensation, but they were used to
that. Tom anchored his airship just outside the city, and, accompanied
by Ned, made his way to the telegraph office.  Some of the officials
there could speak English, though not very well.

"I am expecting a message," said Tom.

"Yes? Who for?" asked the clerk.

"Tom Swift. It will be from America."

As Tom said this he observed a man sitting in the corner of the office
get up hurriedly and go out. All at once his suspicions were aroused.
He thought of the attempts that had been made to get his Wizard Camera
away from him.

"Who was that man?" he quickly asked the agent.

"Him? Oh, he, too, is expecting a message from America. He has been
here some time."

"Why did he go out so quickly?" Ned wanted to know.

"Why, I can not tell. He is an Englishman. They do strange things."

"My telegram? Is it here?" asked Tom impatiently. He wanted to get
whatever word there was from Mr. Period, and be on his way to whatever
destination the picture man might select. Perhaps, after all, his
suspicions, against the man who had so suddenly left, were unfounded.

"Yes, there is a cablegram here for you, Monsieur Swift," said the man,
who was French. "There are charges on it, however."

"Pay 'em, Ned, while I see what this is," directed the young inventor,
as he tore open the envelope.

"Whew!" he whistled a moment later. "This is going some."

"Where to now?" asked Ned. "The North Pole?"

"No, just the opposite. Mr. Period wants me to go to Africa--the Congo
Free State. There's an uprising among the natives there, and he wants
some war pictures. Well, I guess I'll have to go."

As Tom spoke he looked toward the door of the telegraph office, and he
saw the man, who had so hurriedly gone out a few moments before,
looking in at him.




CHAPTER XVII

SUSPICIOUS STRANGERS


"Off to Africa; eh?" remarked Ned, as Tom put the envelope in his
pocket. "That's another long jump. But I guess the Flyer can do it."

"Yes, I think so. I say Ned, not so loud," said Tom, who had hurried to
the side of his chum, whispered the last words.

"What's up?" inquired Ned quickly. "Anything wrong?"

"I don't know. But I think we are being watched. Did you notice that
fellow who was in here a minute ago, when I asked for a telegram?"

"Yes, what about him?"

"Well, he's looking in the door now I think. Don't turn round.  Just
look up into that mirror on the wall, and you can see his reflection."

"I understand," whispered Ned, as he turned his gaze toward the mirror
in question, a large one, with advertisements around the frame. "I see
him," he went on. "There's some one with him."

"That's what I thought," replied Tom. "Take a good look. Whom do you
think the other chap is?"

Ned looked long and earnestly. By means of the mirror, he could see,
perfectly plain, two men standing just outside the door of the
telegraph office. The portal was only partly open. Ned drew an old
letter from his pocket, and pretended to be showing it to Tom. But, all
the while he was gazing earnestly at the two men.  Suddenly one of them
moved, giving Tom's chum a better view of his face.

"By Jove, Tom!" the lad exclaimed in a tense whisper. "If it isn't that
Eckert fellow I'm a cow."

"That's what I thought," spoke Tom coolly. "Not that you're a cow, Ned,
but I believe that this man is one of the moving picture partners, who
are rivals of Mr. Period. I wasn't quite sure myself after the first
glance I had of him, so I wanted you to take a look. Do you know the
other chap--the one who ran out when I asked for my telegram?"

"No, I've never seen him before as far as I know."

"Same here. Come on."

"What are you going to do?"

"Go back to the airship, and tell Mr. Nestor. As one of the directors
in the concern I'm working for. I want his advice."

"Good idea," replied Ned, and they turned to leave the office.  The
spying stranger, and William Eckert, were not in sight when the two
lads came out.

"They got away mighty quick," remarked Tom, as he looked up and down
the street.

"Yes, they probably saw us turn to come out, and made a quick get-away.
They might be in any one of these places along here," for the street,
on either side of the telegraph office, contained a number of hotels,
with doors opening on the sidewalk.

"They must be on your trail yet," decided Mr. Nestor when Tom, reaching
the anchored airship, told what had happened. "Well, my advice is to go
to Africa as soon as we can. In that way we'll leave them behind, and
they won't have any chance to get your camera."

"But what I can't understand," said Tom, "is how they knew I was coming
here. It was just as if that one man had been waiting in the telegraph
office for me to appear. I'm sorry, now, that I mentioned to Ned where
we were ordered to. But I didn't think."

"They probably knew, anyway," was Mr. Nestor's opinion. "I think this
may explain it. The rival concern in New York has been keeping track of
Mr. Period's movements. Probably they have a paid spy who may be in his
employ. They knew when he sent you a telegram, what it contained, and
where it was directed to. Then, of course, they knew you would call
here for it. What they did not know was when you would come, and so
they had to wait. That one spy was on guard, and, as soon as you came,
he went and summoned Eckert, who was waiting somewhere in the
neighborhood."

"Bless my detective story!" cried Mr. Damon. "What a state of affairs!
They ought to be arrested, Tom."

"It would be useless," said Mr. Nestor. "They are probably far enough
away by this time. Or else they have put others on Tom's track."

"I'll fight my own battles!" exclaimed the young inventor. "I don't go
much on the police in a case like this, especially foreign police.
Well, my camera is all right, so far," he went on, as he took a look at
it, in the compartment where he kept it. "Some one must always remain
near it, after this. But we'll soon start for Africa, to get some
pictures of a native battle. I hope it isn't the red pygmies we have to
photograph."

"Bless my shoe laces! Don't suggest such a thing," begged Mr. Damon, as
he recalled the strenuous times when the dwarfs held the missionaries
captive.

It was necessary to lay in some stores and provisions, and for this
reason Tom could not at once head the airship for the African jungles.
As she remained at anchor, just outside the city, crowds of Swiss
people came out to look at the wonderful craft. But Tom and his
companions took care that no one got aboard, and they kept a strict
lookout for Americans, or Englishmen, thinking perhaps that Mr. Eckert,
or the spy, might try to get the camera. However, they did not see
them, and a few days after the receipt of the message from Mr. Period,
having stocked up, they rose high into the air, and set out to cross
the Mediterranean Sea for Africa. Tom laid a route over Tripoli, the
Sahara Desert, the French Congo, and so into the Congo Free State. In
his telegram, Mr. Period had said that the expected uprising was to
take place near Stanley Falls, on the Congo River.

"And supposing it does not happen?" asked Mr. Damon. "What if the
natives don't fight, Tom? You'll have your trip for nothing, and will
run a lot of risk besides."

"It's one of the chances I'm taking," replied the young inventor, and
truly, as he thought of it, he realized that the perils of the moving
picture business were greater than he had imagined. Tom hoped to get a
quick trip to the Congo, but, as they were sailing over the big desert,
there was an accident to the main motor, and the airship suddenly began
shooting toward the sands. She was easily brought up, by means of the
gas bags, and allowed to settle gently to the ground, in the vicinity
of a large oasis. But, when Tom looked at the broken machinery, he said:

"This means a week's delay. It will take that, and longer, to fix it so
we can go on."

"Too bad!" exclaimed Mr. Nestor. "The war may be over when we get
there. But it can't be helped."

It took Tom and his friends even longer than he had thought to make the
repairs. In the meanwhile they camped in the desert place, which was
far from being unpleasant. Occasionally a caravan halted there, but,
for the most part, they were alone.

"No danger of Eckert, or any of his spies coming here, I guess," said
Tom grimly as he blew on a portable forge, to weld two pieces of iron
together.

In due time they were again on the wing, and without further incident
they were soon in the vicinity of Stanley Falls. They managed to locate
a village where there were some American missionaries established. They
were friends of Mr. and Mrs. Illington, the missionaries whom Tom had
saved from the red pygmies, as told in the "Electric Rifle" volume of
this series, and they made our hero and his friends welcome.

"Is it true?" asked Tom, of the missionaries who lived not far from
Stanley Falls, "that there is to be a native battle? Or are we too late
for it?"

"I am sorry to say, I fear there will be fighting among the tribesmen,"
replied Mr. Janeway, one of the Christian workers.  "It has not yet
taken place, though."

"Then I'm not too late!" cried Tom, and there was exultation in his
voice. "I don't mean to be barbarous," he went on, as he saw that the
missionaries looked shocked, "but as long as they are going to fight I
want to get the pictures."

"Oh, they'll fight all right," spoke Mrs. Janeway. "The poor, ignorant
natives here are always ready to fight. This time I think it is about
some cattle that one tribe took from another."

"And where will the battle take place?" asked Tom.

"Well, the rumors we have, seem to indicate that the fight will take
place about ten miles north of here. We will have notice of it before
it starts, as some of the natives, whom we have succeeded in
converting, belong to the tribe that is to be attacked. They will be
summoned to the defense of their town and then it will be time enough
for you to go. Oh, war is a terrible thing! I do not like to talk about
it. Tell me how you rescued our friends from the red pygmies," and Tom
was obliged to relate that story, which I have told in detail elsewhere.

Several days passed, and Tom and his friends spent a pleasant time in
the African village with the missionaries. The airship and camera were
in readiness for instant use, and during this period of idleness our
hero got several fine films of animal scenes, including a number of
night-fights among the beasts at the drinking pools. One tiger battle
was especially good, from a photographic standpoint.

One afternoon, a number of native bearers came into the town.  They
preceded two white men, who were evidently sportsmen, or explorers, and
the latter had a well equipped caravan. The strangers sought the advice
of the missionaries about where big game might be found, and Tom
happened to be at the cottage of Mr. Janeway when the strangers arrived.

The young inventor looked at them critically, as he was introduced to
them. Both men spoke with an English accent, one introducing himself as
Bruce Montgomery, and the other as Wade Kenneth. Tom decided that they
were of the ordinary type of globe-trotting Britishers, until, on his
way to his airship, he passed the place where the native bearers had
set down the luggage of the Englishmen.

"Whew!" whistled Tom, as he caught sight of a peculiarly shaped box.
"See that, Ned?"

"Yes, what is it? A new kind of magazine gun?"

"It's a moving picture camera, or I lose my guess!" whispered Tom. "One
of the old fashioned kind. Those men are no more tourists, or after big
game, than I am! They're moving picture men, and they're here to get
views of that native battle! Ned, we've got to be on our guard. They
may be in the pay of that Turbot and Eckert firm, and they may try to
do us some harm!"

"That's so!" exclaimed Ned. "We'll keep watch of them, Tom."

As they neared their airship, there came, running down what served as
the main village street, an African who showed evidence of having come
from afar. As he ran on, he called out something in a strange tongue.
Instantly from their huts the other natives swarmed.

"What's up now?" cried Ned.

"Something important, I'll wager," replied Tom. "Ned, you go back to
the missionaries house, and find out what it is. I'm going to stand
guard over my camera."

"It's come!" cried Ned a little later, as he hurried into the interior
of the airship, where Tom was busy working over a new attachment he
intended putting on his picture machine.

"What has?"

"War! That native, whom we saw running in, brought news that the battle
would take place day after to-morrow. The enemies of his tribe are on
the march, so the African spies say, and he came to summon all the
warriors from this town. We've got to get busy!"

"That's so. What about those Englishmen?"

"They were talking to the missionaries when the runner came in.  They
pretended to have no interest in it, but I saw one wink to the other,
and then, very soon, they went out, and I saw them talking to their
native bearers, while they were busy over that box you said was a
picture machine."

"I knew it, Ned! I was sure of it! Those fellows came here to trick us,
though how they ever followed our trail I don't know.  Probably they
came by a fast steamer to the West Coast, and struck inland, while we
were delayed on the desert. I don't care if they are only straight
out-and-out rivals--and not chaps that are trying to take an unfair
advantage. I suppose all the big picture concerns have a tip about this
war, and they may have representatives here. I hope we get the best
views. Now come on, and give me a hand. We've got our work cut out for
us, all right."

"Bless my red cross bandage!" cried Mr. Damon, when he heard the news.
"A native fight, eh? That will be something I haven't seen in some
time. Will there be any danger, Tom, do you think?"

"Not unless our airship tumbles down between the two African forces,"
replied our hero, "and I'll take care that it doesn't do that. We'll be
well out of reach of any of their blow guns, or arrows."

"But I understand that many of the tribes have powder weapons," said
Mr. Nestor.

"They have," admitted Tom, "but they are 'trader's' rifles, and don't
carry far. We won't run any risk from such old-fashioned guns."

"A big fight; eh?" asked Koku when they told him what was before them.
"Me like to help."

"Yes, and I guess both sides would give a premium for your services,"
remarked Tom, as he gazed at his big servant. "But we'll need you with
us, Koku."

"Oh, me stay with you, Mr. Tom," exclaimed the big man, with a grin.

Somewhat to Tom's surprise the two Englishmen showed no further
interest in him and his airship, after the introduction at the
missionaries' bungalow.

With the stolidity of their race the Britishers did not show any
surprise, as, some time afterward, they strolled down toward Tom's big
craft, after supper, and looked it over. Soon they went back to their
own camp, and a little later, Koku, who walked toward it, brought word
that the Englishmen were packing up.

"They're going to start for the seat of war the first thing in the
morning," decided Tom. "Well, we'll get ahead of them. Though we can
travel faster than they can, we'll start now, and be on the ground in
good season. Besides, I don't like staying all night in the same
neighborhood with them. Get ready for a start, Ned."

Tom did not stop to say good-bye to the Englishmen, though he bade
farewell to the missionaries, who had been so kind to him.  There was
much excitement in the native town, for many of the tribesmen were
getting ready to depart to help their friends or relatives in the
impending battle.

As dusk was falling, the big airship arose, and soon her powerful
propellers were sending her across the jungle, toward Stanley Falls in
the vicinity of which the battle was expected to take place.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE NATIVE BATTLE


"By Jove, Tom, here they come!"

"From over by that drinking pool?"

"Yes, just as the spies said they would. Wow, what a crowd of the black
beggars there are! And some of 'em have regular guns, too. But most of
'em have clubs, bows and arrows, blow guns, or spears."

Tom and Ned were standing on the forward part of the airship, which was
moving slowly along, over an open plateau, in the jungle where the
native battle was about to take place. Our friends had left the town
where the missionaries lived, and had hovered over the jungle, until
they saw signs of the coming struggle. They had seen nothing of their
English rivals since coming away, but had no doubt but that the
Britishers were somewhere in the neighborhood.

The two forces of black men, who had gone to war over a dispute about
some cattle, approached each other. There was the beating of tom-toms,
and skin drums, and many weird shouts. From their vantage point in the
air, Tom and his companions had an excellent view. The Wizard Camera
was loaded with a long reel of film, and ready for action.

"Bless my handkerchief!" cried Mr. Damon, as he looked down on the
forces that were about to clash. "I never saw anything like this
before!"

"I either," admitted Tom. "But, if things go right, I'm going to get
some dandy films!"

Nearer and nearer the rival forces advanced. At first they had stared,
and shouted in wonder at the sight of the airship, hovering above them,
but their anger soon drew their attention to the fighting at hand, and,
after useless gestures toward the craft of the air, and after some of
them had vainly fired their guns or arrows at it, they paid no more
attention, but rushed on with their shouts and cries and amid the
beating of their rude drums.

"I think I'll begin to take pictures now," said Tom, as Ned, in charge
of the ship, sent it about in a circle, giving a general view of the
rival forces. "I'll show a scene of the two crowds getting ready for
business, and, later on, when they're actually giving each other cats
and dogs, I'll get all the pictures possible."

The camera was started while, safe in the air those on the Flyer watched
what went on below them.

Suddenly the forward squads of the two small armies of blacks met. With
wild, weird yells they rushed at each other. The air was filled with
flying arrows and spears. The sound of the old-fashioned muzzle-loading
guns could be heard, and clouds of smoke arose. Tilting his camera, and
arranging the newly attached reflecting mirrors so as to give the
effect as if a spectator was looking at the battle from in front,
instead of from above, Tom Swift took picture after picture.

The fight was now on. With yells of rage and defiance the Africans came
together, giving blow for blow. It was a wild melee, and those on the
airship looked on fascinated, though greatly wishing that such horrors
could be stopped.

"How about it, Tom?" cried Ned.

"Everything going good! I don't like this business, but now I'm in it
I'm going to stick. Put me down a little lower," answered the young
inventor.

"All right. I say Tom, look over there."

"Where?"

"By that lightning-struck gum tree. See those two men, and some sort of
a machine they've got stuck up on stilts? See it?"

"Sure. Those are the two Englishmen--my rivals! They're taking
pictures, too!"

And then, with a crash and roar, with wild shouts and yells, with
volley after volley of firearms, clouds of smoke and flights of arrows
and spears, the native battle was in full swing, while the young
inventor, sailing above it in his airship, reeled off view after view
of the strange sight.




CHAPTER XIX

A HEAVY LOSS


"Bless my battle axe, but this is awful!" cried Mr. Damon.

"War is always a fearful thing," spoke Mr. Nestor. "But this is not as
bad as if the natives fought with modern weapons. See!  most of them
are fighting with clubs, and their fists. They don't seem to hurt each
other very much."

"That's so," agreed Mr. Damon. The two gentlemen were in the main
cabin, looking down on the fight below them, while Tom, with Ned to
help him change the reels of films, as they became filled with
pictures, attended to the camera. Koku was steering the craft, as he
had readily learned how to manage it.

"Are those Englishmen taking pictures yet?" asked Tom, too busy to turn
his head, and look for himself.

"Yes, they're still at," replied Ned. "But they seem to be having
trouble with their machine," he added as he saw one of the men leave
the apparatus, and run hurriedly back to where they had made a
temporary camp.

"I guess it's an old-fashioned kind," commented Tom. "Say, this is
getting fierce!" he cried, as the natives got in closer contact with
each other. It was now a hand-to-hand battle.

"I should say so!" yelled Ned. "It's a wonder those Englishmen aren't
afraid to be down on the same level with the black fighters."

"Oh, a white person is considered almost sacred by the natives here, so
the missionaries told me," said Tom. "A black man would never think of
raising his hand to one, and the Englishmen probably know this. They're
safe enough. In fact I'm thinking of soon going down myself, and
getting some views from the ground."

"Bless my gizzard, Tom!" cried Mr. Damon. "Don't do it!"

"Yes, I think I will. Why, it's safe enough. Besides, if they attack us
we have the electric rifles. Ned, you tell Koku to get the guns out, to
have in readiness, and then you put the ship down. I'll take a chance."

"Jove! You've been doing nothing but take chances since we came on this
trip!" exclaimed Ned, admiringly. "All right! Here we go," and he went
to relieve Koku at the wheel, while the giant, grinning cheerfully at
the prospect of taking part in the fight himself, got out the rifles,
including his own.

Meanwhile the native battle went on fiercely. Many on both sides fell,
and not a few ran away, when they got the chance, their companions
yelling at them, evidently trying to shame them into coming back.

As the airship landed, Mr. Damon, Mr. Nestor, Ned and Koku stood ready
with the deadly electric rifles, in case an attack should be made on
them. But the fighting natives paid no more attention to our friends
than they did to the two Englishmen.  The latter moved their clumsy
camera from place to place, in order to get various views of the
fighting.

"This is the best yet!" cried Tom, as, after a lull in the fight, when
the two opposing armies had drawn a little apart, they came together
again more desperately than before. "I hope the pictures are being
recorded all right. I have to go at this thing pretty much in the dark.
Say, look at the beggars fight!" he finished.

But a battle, even between uncivilized blacks, cannot go on for very
long at a time. Many had fallen, some being quite severely injured it
seemed, being carried off by their friends. Then, with a sudden rush,
the side which, as our friends learned later, had been robbed of their
cattle, made a fierce attack, overwhelming their enemies, and
compelling them to retreat. Across the open plain the vanquished army
fled, with the others after them. Tom, meanwhile, taking pictures as
fast as he could.

"This ends it!" he remarked to Ned, when the warriors were too far away
to make any more good views. "Now we can take a rest."

"The Englishmen gave up some time ago," said his chum, motioning to the
two men who were taking their machine off the tripod.

"Guess their films gave out," spoke Tom. "Well, you see it didn't do
any harm to come down, and I got some better views here."

"Here they come back!" exclaimed Ned, as a horde of the black fellows
emerged from the jungle, and came on over the plain.

"Hear 'em sing!" commented Tom, as the sound of a rude chant came to
their ears. "They must be the winners all right."

"I guess so," agreed Ned. "But what about staying here now?  Maybe they
won't be so friendly to us when they haven't any fighting to occupy
their minds."

"Don't worry," advised Tom. "They won't bother us."

And the blacks did not. They were caring for their wounded, who had not
already been taken from the field, and they paid no attention to our
friends, save to look curiously at the airship.

"Bless my newspaper!" cried Mr. Damon, with an air of relief.  "I'm
glad that's over, and we didn't have to use the electric rifles, after
all."

"Here come the Englishmen to pay us a visit," spoke Ned a little later,
as they sat about the cabin of the Flyer. The two rival picture men
soon climbed on deck.

"Beg pardon," said the taller of the two, addressing our hero, "but
could you lend us a roll of film? Ours are all used up, and we want to
get some more pictures before going back to our main camp."

"I'm sorry," replied Tom, "but I use a special size, and it fits no
camera but my own."

"Ah! might we see your camera?" asked the other Englishman.  "That is,
see how it works?"

"I don't like to be disobliging," was Tom's answer, "but it is not yet
patented and--well--" he hesitated.

"Oh, I see!" sneered the taller visitor. "You're afraid we might steal
some of your ideas. Hum! Come on Montgomery," and, swinging on his
heels, with a military air, he hurried away, followed by his companion.

"They don't like that, but I can't help it," remarked Tom to his
friends a little later. "I can't afford to take any chances."

"No, you did just right," said Mr. Nestor. "Those men may be all right,
but from the fact that they are in the picture taking business I'd be
suspicious of them."

"Well, what's next on the programme?" asked Ned as Tom put his camera
away.

"Oh, I think we'll stay here over night," was our hero's reply.  "It's
a nice location, and the gas machine needs cleaning. We can do it here,
and maybe I can get some more pictures."

They were busy the rest of the day on the gas generator, but the main
body of natives did not come back, and the Englishmen seemed to have
disappeared.

Everyone slept soundly that night. So soundly, in fact, that the sun
was very high when Koku was the first to awaken, His head felt
strangely dizzy, and he wondered at a queer smell in the room he had to
himself.

"Nobody up yet," he exclaimed in surprise, as he staggered into the
main cabin. There, too, was the strange, sweetish, sickly smell. "Mr.
Tom, where you be? Time to get up!" the giant called to his master, as
he went in, and gently shook the young inventor by the shoulder.

"Eh? What's that? What's the matter?" began Tom, and then he suddenly
sat up. "Oh, my head!" he exclaimed, putting his hands to his aching
temples.

"And that queer smell!" added Ned, who was also awake now.

"Bless my talcum powder!" cried Mr. Damon. "I have a splitting
headache."

"Hum! Chloroform, if I'm any judge!" called Mr. Nestor from his berth.

"Chloroform!" cried Tom, staggering to his feet. "I wonder." He did not
finish his sentence, but made his way to the room where his camera was
kept. "It's gone!" he cried. "We have been chloroformed in the night,
and some one has taken my Wizard Camera."




CHAPTER XX

AFTER THE ENGLISHMEN


"The camera gone!" gasped Ned.

"Did they chloroform us?" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Bless my--" but for one
of the few times in his life, he did not know what to bless.

"Get all the fresh air you can," hastily advised Mr. Nestor.  "Koku,
open all the doors and windows," for, though it was hot during the day
in the jungle, the nights were cool, and the airship was generally
closed up. With the inrush of the fresh air every one soon felt better.

"Is anything else gone?" asked Ned, as he followed Tom into the camera
room.

"Yes, several rolls of unexposed films. Oh, if only they haven't got
too much of a start! I'll get it away from them!" declared Tom with
energy.

"From who? Who took it?" asked Ned.

"Those Englishmen, of course! Who else? I believe they are in the pay
of Turbot and Eckert. Their taking pictures was only a bluff! They got
on my trail and stuck to it. The delays we had, gave them a chance to
catch up to us. They came over to the airship, to pretend to borrow
films, just to get a look at the place, and size it up, so they could
chloroform us, and get the camera."

"I believe you're right," declared Mr. Nestor. "We must get after those
scoundrels as quickly as possible!"

"Bless my shoulder braces!" cried Mr. Damon. "How do you imagine they
worked that trick on us?"

"Easily enough," was Mr. Nestor's opinion. "We were all dead tired last
night, and slept like tops. They watched their chance, sneaked up, and
got in. After that it was no hard matter to chloroform each one of us
in turn, and they had the ship to themselves. They looked around, found
the camera, and made off with it."

"Well, I'm going to get right after them!" cried Tom. "Ned, start the
motor. I'll steer for a while."

"Hold on! Wait a minute," suggested Mr. Nestor. "I wouldn't go off in
the ship just yet, Tom."

"Why not?"

"Because you don't know which way to go. We must find out which trail
the Englishmen took. They have African porters with them, and those
porters doubtless know some of the blacks around here.  We must inquire
of the natives which way the porters went, in carrying the goods of our
rivals, for those Englishmen would not abandon camp without taking
their baggage with them."

"That's so," admitted the young inventor. "That will be the best plan.
Once I find which way they have gone I can easily overtake them in the
airship. And when I find 'em--" Tom paused significantly.

"Me help you fix 'em!" cried Koku, clenching his big fist.

"They will probably figure it out that you will take after them," said
Mr. Nestor, "but they may not count on you doing it in the Flyer, and
so they may not try to hide. It isn't going to be an easy matter to
pick a small party out of the jungle though, Tom."

"Well, I've done more difficult things in my airships," spoke our hero.
"I'll fly low, and use the glass. I guess we can pick out their crowd
of porters, though they won't have many. Oh, my camera! I hope they
won't damage it."

"They won't," was Ned's opinion. "It's too valuable. They want it to
take pictures with, themselves."

"Maybe. I hope they don't open it, and see how it's made. And I'm glad
I thought to hide the picture films I've taken so far.  They didn't get
those away from us, only some of the blank ones," and Tom looked again
in a secret closet, where he kept the battle-films, and the others, in
the dark, to prevent them from being light-struck, by any possible
chance.

"Well, if we're going to make some inquiries, let's do it," suggested
Mr. Nestor. "I think I see some of the Africans over there. They have
made a temporary camp, it seems, to attend to some of their wounded."

"Do you think we can make them understand what we want?" asked Ned. "I
don't believe they speak English."

"Oh these blacks have been trading with white men," said Tom, "for they
have 'trader's' guns, built to look at, and not to shoot very well. I
fancy we can make ourselves understood. If not, we can use signs."

Leaving Koku and Mr. Damon to guard the airship, Tom, Ned and Mr.
Nestor went to the African camp. There was a large party of men there,
and they seemed friendly enough. Probably winning the battle the day
before had put them in good humor, even though many of them were hurt.

To Tom's delight he found one native who could speak a little English,
and of him they made inquiries as to what direction the Englishmen had
taken. The black talked for a while among his fellows, and then
reported to our friends that, late in the night, one of the porters,
hired by Montgomery and Kenneth, had come to camp to bid a brother
good-bye. This porter had said that his masters were in a hurry to get
away, and had started west.

"That's it!" cried Mr. Nestor. "They're going to get somewhere so they
can make their way to the coast. They want to get out of Africa as fast
as they can."

"And I'm going to get after 'em as fast as I can!" cried Tom grimly.
"Come on!"

They hurried back to the airship, finding Koku and Mr. Damon peacefully
engaged in talk, no one having disturbed them.

"Start the motor, Ned!" called his chum. "We'll see what luck we have!"

Up into the air went the Flyer, her great propellers revolving rapidly.
Over the jungle she shot, and then, when he found that everything was
working well, and that the cleaned gas generator was operating as good
as when it was new, the young inventor slowed up, and brought the craft
down to a lower level.

"For we don't want to run past these fellows, or shoot over their heads
in our hurry," Tom explained. "Ned, get out the binoculars. They're
easier to handle than the telescope. Then go up forward, and keep a
sharp lookout. There is something like a jungle trail below us, and it
looks to be the only one around here. They probably took that." Soon
after leaving the place where they had camped after the battle, Tom had
seen a rude path through the forest, and had followed that lead.

On sped the Flyer, after the two Englishmen, while Tom thought
regretfully of his stolen camera.




CHAPTER XXI

THE JUNGLE FIRE


"Well, Tom, I don't seem to see anything of them," remarked Ned that
afternoon, as he sat in the bow of the air craft, gazing from time to
time through the powerful glasses.

"No, and I can't understand it, either," responded the young inventor,
who had come forward to relieve his chum. "They didn't have much the
start of us, and they'll have to travel very slowly. It isn't as if
they could hop on a train; and, even if they did, I could overtake them
in a short time. But they have to travel on foot through the jungle,
and can't have gone far."

"Maybe they have bullock carts," suggested Mr. Damon.

"The trail isn't wide enough for that," declared Tom. "We've come quite
a distance now, even if we have been running at low speed, and we
haven't seen even a black man on the trail," and he motioned to the
rude path below them.

"They may have taken a boat and slipped down that river we crossed a
little while ago," suggested Ned.

"That's so!" cried Tom. "Why didn't I think of it? Say! I'm going to
turn back."

"Turn back?"

"Yes, and go up and down the stream a way. We have time, for we can
easily run at top speed on the return trip. Then, if we don't see
anything of them on the water, we'll pick up the trail again.  Put her
around, Ned, and I'll take the glasses for a while."

The Flyer was soon shooting back over the same trail our friends had
covered, and, as Ned set the propellers going at top speed, they were
quickly hovering over a broad but shallow river, which cut through the
jungle.

"Try it down stream first," suggested Tom, who was peering through the
binoculars. "They'd be most likely to go down, as it would be easier."

Along over the stream swept the airship, covering several miles.

"There's a boat!" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Nestor, pointing to a native
canoe below them.

"Bless my paddle wheel! So it is!" cried Mr. Damon. "I believe it's
them, Tom!"

"No, there are only natives in that craft," answered the young inventor
a moment later, as he brought the binoculars into focus.  "I wish it
was them, though."

A few more miles were covered down stream, and then Tom tried the
opposite direction. But all to no purpose. A number of boats were seen,
and several rafts, but they had no white men on them.

"Maybe the Englishmen disguised themselves like natives, Tom,"
suggested Ned.

Our hero shook his head.

"I could see everything in the boats, through these powerful glasses,"
he replied, "and there was nothing like my camera. I'd know that a mile
off. No, they didn't take to this stream, though they probably crossed
it. We'll have to keep on the way we were going. It will soon be night,
and we'll have to camp. Then we'll take up the search to-morrow."

It was just getting dusk, and Tom was looking about for a good place to
land in the jungle, when Ned, who was standing in the bow, cried:

"I say, Tom, here's a native village just ahead. There's a good place
to stop, and we can stay there over night."

"Good!" exclaimed Tom. "And, what's more, we can make some inquiries as
to whether or not the Englishmen have passed here.  This is great!
Maybe we'll come out all right, after all! They can't travel at
night--or at least I don't believe they will--and if they have passed
this village we can catch them to-morrow.  We'll go down."

They were now over the native town, which was in a natural clearing in
the jungle. The natives had by this time caught sight of the big
airship over them, and were running about in terror. There was not a
man, woman or child in sight when the Flyer came down, for the
inhabitants had all fled in fright.

"Not much of a chance to make inquiries of these folks," said Mr.
Nestor.

"Oh, they'll come back," predicted Tom. "They are naturally curious,
and when they see that the thing isn't going to blow up, they'll gather
around. I've seen the same thing happen before."

Tom proved a true prophet. In a little while some of the men began
straggling back, when they saw our friends walking about the airship,
as it rested on the ground. Then came the children, and then the women,
until the whole population was gathered about the airship, staring at
it wonderingly. Tom made signs of friendship, and was lucky enough to
find a native who knew a few French words. Tom was not much of a French
scholar, but he could frame a question as to the Englishmen.

"Oui!" exclaimed the native, when he understood. Then he rattled off
something, which Tom, after having it repeated, and making signs to the
man to make sure he understood, said meant that the Englishmen had
passed through the village that morning.

"We're on the right trail!" cried the young inventor. "They're only a
day's travel ahead of us. We'll catch them to-morrow, and get my camera
back."

The natives soon lost all fear of the airship, and some of the chief
men even consented to come aboard. Tom gave them a few trifles for
presents, and won their friendship to such an extent that a great feast
was hastily gotten up in honor of the travelers. Big fires were
lighted, and fowls by the score were roasted.

"Say, I'm glad we struck this place!" exclaimed Ned, as he sat on the
ground with the others, eating roast fowl. "This is all to the chicken
salad!"

"Things are coming our way at last," remarked Tom. "We'll start the
first thing in the morning. I wish I had my camera now. I'd take a
picture of this scene. Dad would enjoy it, and so would Mrs. Baggert.
Oh, I almost wish I was home again. But if I get my camera I've got a
lot more work ahead of me."

"What kind?" asked Ned.

"I don't know. I'm to stop in Paris for the next instructions from Mr.
Period. He is keeping in touch with the big happenings of the world,
and he may send us to Japan, to get some earthquake pictures."

The night was quiet after the feast, and in the morning Tom and his
friends sailed off in their airship, leaving behind the wondering and
pleased natives, for our hero handed out more presents, of small value
to him, but yet such things as the blacks prized highly.

Once more they were flying over the trail, and they put on more speed
now, for they were fairly sure that the men they sought were ahead of
them about a day's travel. This meant perhaps twenty miles, and Tom
figured that he could cover fifteen in a hurry, and then go over the
remaining five slowly, so as not to miss his quarry.

"Say, don't you smell something?" asked Ned a little later, when the
airship had been slowed down. "Something like smoke?"

"Humph! I believe I do get an odor of something burning," admitted Tom,
sniffing the atmosphere.

"Bless my pocket book!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "look down there, boys!"
He pointed below, and, to the surprise of the lads, and no less of
himself, he saw many animals hurrying back along the jungle trail.

There were scores of deer, leaping along, here and there a tawny lion,
and one or two tigers. Off to one side a rhinoceros crashed his way
through the tangle, and occasionally an elephant was seen.

"That's queer," cried Ned. "And they're not paying any attention to
each other, either."

"Something is happening," was Mr. Nestor's opinion. "Those animals are
running away from something."

"Maybe it's an elephant drive," spoke Tom. "I think--"

But he did not finish. The smell of smoke suddenly became stronger,
and, a moment later, as the airship rose higher, in response to a
change in the angle of the deflecting rudder, which Ned shifted, all on
board saw a great volume of black smoke rolling toward the sky.

"A jungle fire!" cried Tom. "The jungle is burning! That's why the
animals are running back this way."

"We'd better not go on!" shouted Ned, choking a bit, as the smoke
rolled nearer.

"No, we've got to turn back!" decided Tom. "Say, this will stop the
Englishmen! They can't go on. We'll go back to the village we left, and
wait for them. They're trapped!" And then he added soberly: "I hope my
camera doesn't get burnt up!"




CHAPTER XXII

A DANGEROUS COMMISSION


"Look at that smoke!" yelled Ned, as he sent the airship about in a
great circle on the backward trail.

"And there's plenty of blaze, too," added Tom. "See the flames eating
away! This stuff is as dry as tinder for there hasn't been any rain for
months."

"Much hot!" was the comment of the giant, when he felt the warm wind of
the fire.

"Bless my fountain pen!" gasped Mr. Damon, as he looked down into the
jungle. "See all those animals!"

The trail was now thick with deer, and many small beasts, the names of
which Tom did not know. On either side could be heard larger brutes,
crashing their way forward to escape the fire behind them.

"Oh, if you only had your camera now!" cried Ned. "You could get a
wonderful picture, Tom."

"What's the use of wishing for it. Those Englishmen have it, and--"

"Maybe they're using it!" interrupted Ned. "No, I don't think they
would know how to work it. Do you see anything of them, Ned?"

"Not a sight. But they'll surely have to come back, just as you said,
unless they got ahead of the fire. They can't go on, and it would be
madness to get off the trail in a jungle like this."

"I don't believe they could have gotten ahead of the fire," spoke Tom.
"They couldn't travel fast enough for that, and see how broad the blaze
is."

They were now higher up, well out of the heat and smoke of the
conflagration, and they could see that it extended for many miles along
the trail, and for a mile or so on either side of it.

"We're far enough in advance, now, to go down a bit, I guess," said
Tom, a little later. "I want to get a good view of the path, and I
can't do that from up here. I have an idea that--"

Tom did not finish, for as the airship approached nearer the ground, he
caught up a pair of binoculars, and focussed them on something on the
trail below.

"What is it?" cried Ned, startled by something in his chum's manner.

"It's them! The Englishmen!" cried Tom. "See, they are racing back
along the trail. Their porters have deserted them. But they have my
camera! I can see it! I'm going down, and get it! Ned, stand by the
wheel, and make a quick landing. Then we'll go up again!"

Tom handed the glasses to his chum, and Ned quickly verified the young
inventor's statement. There were the two rascally Englishmen. The fire
was still some distance in the rear, but was coming on rapidly. There
were no animals to be seen, for they had probably gone off on a side
trail, or had slunk deeper into the jungle. Above the distant roar of
the blaze sounded the throb of the airship's motor. The Englishmen
heard it, and looked up.  Then, suddenly, they motioned to Tom to
descend.

"That's what I'm going to do," he said aloud, but of course they could
not hear him.

"They're waiting for us!" cried Ned. "I wonder why?" for the rascals
had come to a halt, setting down the packs they carried on the trail.
One of the things they had was undoubtedly Tom's camera.

"They probably want us to save their lives," said Tom. "They know they
can't out-run this fire. They've given up! We have them now!"

"Are you going to save them?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Of course. I wouldn't let my worst enemy run the chances of danger in
that terrible blaze. I'd save them even if they had smashed my camera.
I'll go down, and get them, and take them back to the native village,
but that's as far as I will carry them.  They'll have to get away as
best they can, after that."

It was the work of but a few minutes to lower the airship to the trail.
Fortunately it widened a bit at this point, or Tom could never have
gotten his craft down through the trees.

"Hand up that camera!" ordered our hero curtly, when he had stopped
near the Englishmen.

"Yes, my dear chap," spoke the tall Britisher, "but will you oblige us,
by taking us--"

"Hand up the camera first!" sharply ordered Tom again.

They passed it to him.

"I know we treated you beastly mean," went on Kenneth, "but, my dear
chap--"

"Get aboard," was all Tom said, and when the rascals, with fearful
glances back into the burning jungle, did so, our hero sent his craft
high into the air again.

"Where are you taking us, my dear chap?" asked the tall rascal.

"Don't 'dear chap' me!" retorted Tom. "I don't want to talk to you. I'm
going to drop you at the native village."

"But that will burn!" cried the Englishman.

"The wind is changing," was our hero's answer. "The fire won't get to
the village. You'll be safe. Have you damaged my camera?" he asked as
he began to examine it, while Ned managed the ship.

"No, my dear chap. You mustn't think too hard of us. We were both down
on our luck, and a chap offered us a big sum to get on your trail, and
secure the camera. He said you had filched it from him, and that he had
a right to it. Understand, we wouldn't have taken it had we known--"

"Don't talk to me!" interrupted Tom, as he saw that his apparatus had
not been damaged. "The man who hired you was a rascal--that's all I'll
say. Put on a little more speed, Ned. I want to get rid of these 'dear
chaps' and take some pictures of the jungle fire."

As Tom had said, the wind had changed, and was blowing the flames away
off to one side, so that the native village would be in no danger. It
was soon reached, and the Africans were surprised to see Tom's airship
back again. But he did not stay long, descending only to let the
Englishmen alight. They pleaded to be taken to the coast, making all
sorts of promises, and stating that, had they known that Turbot and
Eckert (for whom they admitted they had acted) were not telling the
truth, they never would have taken Tom's camera.

"Don't leave us here!" they pleaded.

"I wouldn't have you on board my airship another minute for a fortune!"
declared Tom, as he signalled to Ned to start the motor. Then the Flyer
ascended on high, leaving the plotters and started back for the fire,
of which Tom got a series of fine moving pictures.

A week later our friends were in Paris, having made a quick trip, on
which little of incident occurred, though Tom managed to get quite a
number of good views on the way.

He found a message awaiting him, from Mr. Period.

"Well, where to now?" asked Ned, as his chum read the cablegram.

"Great Scott!" cried our hero. "Talk about hair-raising jobs, this
certainly is the limit!"

"Why, what's the matter?"

"I've got to get some moving pictures of a volcano in action," was the
answer. "Say, if I'd known what sort of things 'Spotty' wanted, I'd
never have consented to take this trip. A volcano in action, and maybe
an earthquake on the side! This is certainly going some!"




CHAPTER XXIII

AT THE VOLCANO


"And you've got to snap-shot a volcano?" remarked Ned to his chum,
after a moment of surprised silence. "Any particular one?  Is it
Vesuvius? If it is we haven't far to go. But how does Mr. Period know
that it's going to get into action when we want it to?"

"No, it isn't Vesuvius," replied Tom. "We've got to take another long
trip, and we'll have to go by steamer again. The message says that the
Arequipa volcano, near the city of the same name, in Peru, has started
to 'erupt,' and, according to rumor, it's acting as it did many years
ago, just before a big upheaval."

"Bless my Pumice stones!" cried Mr. Damon. "And are you expected to get
pictures of it shooting out flames and smoke, Tom?"

"Of course. An inactive volcano wouldn't make much of a moving picture.
Well, if we go to Peru, we won't be far from the United States, and we
can fly back home in the airship. But we've got to take the Flyer
apart, and pack up again."

"Will you have time?" asked Mr. Nestor. "Maybe the volcano will get
into action before you arrive, and the performance will be all over
with."

"I think not," spoke Tom, as he again read the cablegram. "Mr. Period
says he has advices from Peru to the effect that, on other occasions,
it took about a month from the time smoke was first seen coming from
the crater, before the fireworks started up. I guess we've got time
enough, but we won't waste any."

"And I guess Montgomery and Kenneth won't be there to make trouble for
us," put in Ned. "It will be some time before they get away from that
African town, I think."

They began work that day on taking the airship apart for transportation
to the steamer that was to carry them across the ocean. Tom decided on
going to Panama, to get a series of pictures on the work of digging
that vast canal. On inquiry he learned that a steamer was soon to sail
for Colon, so he took passage for his friends and himself on that, also
arranging for the carrying of the parts of his airship.

It was rather hard work to take the Flyer apart, but it was finally
done, and, in about a week from the time of arriving in Paris, they
left that beautiful city. The pictures already taken were forwarded to
Mr. Period, with a letter of explanation of Tom's adventures thus far,
and an account of how his rivals had acted.

Just before sailing, Tom received another message from his strange
employer. The cablegram read:


"Understand our rivals are also going to try for volcano pictures.
Can't find out who will represent Turbot and Eckert, but watch out. Be
suspicious of strangers."


"That's what I will!" cried Tom. "If they get my camera away from me
again, it will be my own fault."

The voyage to Colon was not specially interesting. They ran into a
terrific storm, about half way over, and Tom took some pictures from
the steamer's bridge, the captain allowing him to do so, but warning
him to be careful.

"I'll take Koku up there with me," said the young inventor, "and if a
wave tries to wash me overboard he'll grab me."

And it was a good thing that he took this precaution, for, while a wave
did not get as high as the bridge, one big, green roller smashed over
the bow of the vessel, staggering her so that Tom was tossed against
the rail. He would have been seriously hurt, and his camera might have
been broken, but for the quickness of the giant.

Koku caught his master, camera and all, in a mighty arm, and with the
other clung to a stanchion, holding Tom in safety until the ship was on
a level keel once more.

"Thanks, Koku!" gasped Tom. "You always seem to be around when I need
you." The giant grinned happily.

The storm blew out in a few days, and, from then on, there was pleasant
sailing. When Tom's airship had been reassembled at Colon, it created
quite a sensation among the small army of canal workers, and, for their
benefit, our hero gave several flying exhibitions.

He then took some of the engineers on a little trip, and in turn, they
did him the favor of letting him get moving pictures of parts of the
work not usually seen.

"And now for the volcano!" cried Tom one morning, when having shipped
to Mr. Period the canal pictures, the Flyer was sent aloft, and her
nose pointed toward Arequipa. "We've got quite a run before us."

"How long?" asked Ned.

"About two thousand miles. But I'm going to speed her up to the limit."
Tom was as good as his word, and soon the Flyer was shooting along at
her best rate, reeling off mile after mile, just below the clouds.

It was a wild and desolate region over which the travelers found
themselves most of the time, though the scenery was magnificent. They
sailed over Quito, that city on the equator, and, a little later, they
passed above the Cotopaxi and Chimbarazo volcanoes. But neither of them
was in action. The Andes Mountains, as you all know, has many volcanoes
scattered along the range. Lima was the next large city, and there Tom
made a descent to inquire about the burning mountain he was shortly to
photograph.

"It will soon be in action," the United States counsel said. "I had a
letter from a correspondent near there only yesterday, and he said the
people in the town were getting anxious. They are fearing a shower of
burning ashes, or that the eruption may be accompanied by an
earthquake."

"Good!" cried Tom. "Oh, I don't mean it exactly that way," he hastened
to add, as he saw the counsel looking queerly at him. "I meant that I
could get pictures of both earthquake and volcano then. I don't wish
the poor people any harm."

"Well, you're the first one I ever saw who was anxious to get next door
to a volcano," remarked the counsel. "Hold on, though, that's not quite
right. I heard yesterday that a couple of young fellows passed through
here on their way to the same place. Come to think of it, they were
moving picture men, also."

"Great Scott!" cried Tom. "Those must be my rivals, I'll wager.  I must
get right on the job. Thanks for the information," and hurrying from
the office he joined his friends on the airship, and was soon aloft
again.

"Look, Tom, what's that?" cried Ned, about noon the next day when the
Flyer, according to their calculations must be nearing the city of
Arequipa. "See that black cloud over there. I hope it isn't a tornado,
or a cyclone, or whatever they call the big wind storms down here."

Tom, and the others, looked to where Ned pointed. There was a column of
dense smoke hovering in the air, lazily swirling this way and that. The
airship was rapidly approaching it.

"Why that--" began Tom, but before he could complete the sentence the
smoke was blown violently upward. It became streaked with fire, and, a
moment later, there was the echo of a tremendous explosion.

"The volcano!" cried Tom. "The Arequipa volcano! We're here just in
time, for she's in eruption now! Come on, Ned, help me get out the
camera! Mr. Damon, you and Mr. Nestor manage the airship! Put us as
close as you dare! I'm going to get some crackerjack pictures!"

Once more came a great report.

"Bless my toothpick!" gasped Mr. Damon. "This is awful!" And the
airship rushed on toward the volcano which could be plainly seen now,
belching forth fire, smoke and ashes.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE MOLTEN RIVER


"Whew!" gasped Ned, as he stood beside Tom in the bow of the airship.
"What's that choking us, Tom?"

"Sulphur, I guess, and gases from the volcano. The wind blew 'em over
this way. They're not dangerous, as long as there is no carbonic acid
gas given off, and I don't smell any of that, yet.  Say, Ned, it's
erupting all right, isn't it?"

"I should say so!" cried his chum.

"Put us a little to one side, Mr. Damon," called Tom to his friend, who
was in the pilot house. "I can't get good pictures through so much
smoke. It's clearer off to the left."

"Bless my bath robe!" cried the odd man. "You're as cool about it, Tom,
as though you were just in an ordinary race, at an aeroplane meet."

"And why shouldn't I be?" asked our hero with a laugh, as he stopped
the mechanism of the camera until he should have a clearer view of the
volcano. "There's not much danger up here, but I want to get some views
from the level, later, and then--"

"You don't get me down there!" interrupted Mr. Nestor, with a grim
laugh.

They were now hovering over the volcano, but high enough up so that
none of the great stones that were being thrown out could reach them.
The column of black smoke, amid which could be seen the gleams of the
molten fires in the crater, rolled toward them, and the smell of
sulphur became stronger.

But when, in accordance with Tom's suggestion, the airship had been
sent over to one side, they were clear of the vapor and the noxious
gas. Then, too, a better view could be had of the volcano below them.

"Hold her down!" cried Tom, as he got in a good position, and the
propellers were slowed down so that they just overcame the influence of
a slight wind. Thus the Flyer hovered in the air, while below her the
volcano belched forth red-hot rocks, some of them immense in size, and
quantities of hot ashes and cinders.  Tom had the camera going again
now, and there was every prospect of getting a startling and wonderful,
as well as rare series of moving pictures.

"Wow! That was a big one!" cried Ned, as an unusually large mass of
rocks was thrown out, and the column of fire and smoke ascended nearly
to the hovering craft. A moment later came an explosion, louder than
any that had preceded. "We'd better be going up; hadn't we Tom?" his
chum asked.

"A little, yes, but not too far. I want to get as many near views as I
can."

"Bless my overshoes!" gasped Mr. Damon, as he heard Tom say that. Then
he sent some of the vapor from the generating machine into the gas bag,
and the Flyer arose slightly.

Ned looked in the direction of the town, but could not see it, on
account of the haze. Then he directed his attention to the terrifying
sight below him.

"It's a good thing it isn't very near the city," he said to Tom, who
was engaged in watching the automatic apparatus of the camera, to see
when he would have to put in a fresh film. "It wouldn't take much of
this sort of thing to destroy a big city.  But I don't see any streams
of burning lava, such as they always say come out of a volcano."

"It isn't time for that yet," replied Tom. "The lava comes out last,
after the top layer of stones and ashes have been blown out. They are a
sort of stopper to the volcano, I guess, like the cork of a bottle,
and, when they're out of the way, the red-hot melted rock comes out.
Then there's trouble. I want to get pictures of that."

"Well, keep far enough away," advised Mr. Nestor, who had come forward.
"Don't take any chances. I guess your rivals won't get here in time to
take any pictures, for they can't travel as fast as we did."

"No," agreed the young inventor, "unless some other party of them were
here ahead of us. They'll have their own troubles, though, making
pictures anything like as good as we're getting."

"There goes another blast!" cried Ned, as a terrific explosion sounded,
and a shower of hot stuff was thrown high into the air.  "If I lived in
Arequipa I'd be moving out about now."

"There isn't much danger I guess, except from showers of burning ashes,
and volcanic dust," spoke Mr. Nestor, "and the wind is blowing it away
from the town. If it continues this way the people will be saved."

"Unless there is so much of the red-hot lava that it will bury the
city," suggested Tom. "I hope that doesn't happen," and he could not
repress a shudder as he looked down on the awful scene below him.

After that last explosion the volcano appeared to subside somewhat,
though great clouds of smoke and tongues of fire leaped upward.

"I've got to put in a new reel of film!" suddenly exclaimed Tom. "While
I stop the camera, Mr. Damon, I think you and Mr. Nestor might put the
airship down to the ground. I want some views on the level."

"What! Go down to earth with this awful volcano spouting fire?" cried
Mr. Damon. "Bless my comb and brush!"

"We can get well down the side of the mountain," said Tom. "I won't go
into any danger, much less ask any one else to do so, and I certainly
don't want my ship damaged. We can land down there," he said, pointing
to a spot on the side of the volcanic mountain, that was some distance
removed from the mouth of the crater. "It won't take me long to get one
reel of views, and then I'll come up again."

The two men finally gave in to Tom's argument, that there was
comparatively little danger, for they admitted that they could quickly
rise up at the first sign of danger, and accordingly the Flyer
descended. Tom quickly had a fresh reel of film inserted, and started
his camera to working, standing it on a tripod some distance from the
airship.

Once more the volcano was "doing its prettiest," as Tom expressed it.
He glanced around, as another big explosion took place, to see if any
other picture men were on hand, but the terrible mountain seemed
deserted, though of course someone might be on the other side.

"What's that?" suddenly cried Ned, looking apprehensively at his chum.
At the same time Tom jumped to his feet, for he had been kneeling near
the camera.

"Bless my--" began Mr. Damon, but he got no farther, for suddenly the
solid ground began to tremble and shake.

"An earthquake!" shouted Mr. Nestor. "Come, Tom! Get back to the ship!"
The young inventor and Ned had been the only ones to leave it, as it
rested on a spur of the mountain.

As Tom and Ned leaped forward to save the camera which was toppling to
one side, there came a great fissure in the side of the volcano, and a
stream of molten rock, glowing white with heat, gushed out. It was a
veritable river of melted stone, and it was coming straight for the two
lads.

"Run! Run!" cried Mr. Nestor. "We have everything ready for a quick
flight. Run, Tom! Ned!"

The lads leaped for the Flyer, the molten rock coming nearer and
nearer, and then with a cry Koku sprang overboard and made a dash
toward his master.




CHAPTER XXV

THE EARTHQUAKE--CONCLUSION


"Here, Mr. Tom. Me carry you an' Ned. You hold picture machine!" cried
the giant. "Me run faster."

As he spoke he lifted Ned up under one arm, and caught Tom in the
other. For they were but as children to his immense strength.  Tom held
on to his camera, and, thus laden down, Koku ran as he had never run
before, toward the waiting airship.

"Come on! Come on!" shouted Mr. Damon, for he could see what Tom, Ned
and Koku could not, that the stream of lava was nearing them rapidly.

"It's hot!" cried Ned, as a wave of warm air fanned his cheek.

"I should say so!" cried Tom. "The volcano is full of red-hot melted
stone."

There came a sickening shake of the earth. Koku staggered as he ran on,
but he kept his feet, and did not fall. Again came a tremendous
explosion, and a shower of fine ashes sifted over the airship, and on
Koku and his living burdens.

"This is the worst ever!" gasped Tom. "But I've got some dandy
pictures, if we ever get away from here alive to develop them."

"Hurry, Koku! Hurry!" begged Mr. Nestor. "Bless my shoe laces!" yelled
Mr. Damon, who was fairly jumping up and down on the deck of the Flyer.
"I'll never go near a volcano again!"

Once more the ground shook and trembled, as the earthquake rent it.
Several cracks appeared in Koku's path, but he leaped over them with
tremendous energy. A moment later he had thrust Tom and Ned over the
rail, to the deck, and leaped aboard himself.

"Let her go!" cried Tom. "I'll do the rest of my moving picture work,
around volcanoes and earthquakes, from up in the air!"

The Flyer shot upward, and scarcely a moment too soon, for, an instant
after she left the ground, the stream of hot, burning and bubbling lava
rolled beneath her, and those on board could feel the heat of it
ascending.

"Say, I'm glad we got out of that when we did," gasped Ned, as he
looked down. "You're all right, Koku."

"That no trouble," replied the giant with a cheerful grin. "Me carry
four fellows like you," and he stretched out his big arms.  Tom had at
once set his camera to working again, taking view after view.

It was a terrifying but magnificent sight that our friends beheld, for
the earth was trembling and heaving. Great fissures opened in many
places. Into some of them streams of lava poured, for now the volcano
had opened in several places, and from each crack the melted rocks
belched out. The crater, however, was not sending into the air such
volumes of smoke and ashes as before, as most of the tremendous energy
had passed, or was being used to spout out the lava.

The earthquake was confined to the region right about the volcano, or
there might have been a great loss of life in the city. As it was, the
damage done was comparatively slight.

Tom continued to take views, some showing the earth as it was twisted
and torn, and other different aspects of the crater.  Then, as suddenly
as the earthquake had begun, it subsided, and the volcano was less
active.

"My! I'm glad to see that!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I've had about enough
of horrors!"

"And I have too," added Tom. "I'm on my last roll of film, and I can't
take many more pictures. But I guess I have all Mr. Period needs, and
we'll start for home, as soon as I finish the next roll. But I'm going
to save that for a night view. That will be a novelty."

The volcano became active again after dark, and presented a magnificent
though terrifying aspect. As the airship hovered above it, Tom got some
of his best pictures, and then, as the last bit of film slipped along
back of the lens, the airship was headed north.

"Now for Shopton!" cried Tom. "Our trip is ended."

"It's too had you didn't have more film," said Ned. "I thought you had
plenty."

"Well, I used more than I counted on, but there are enough pictures as
it is."

"Plenty," agreed Mr. Nestor. "I'm sure our company will be very well
satisfied with them, Tom. We can't get home any too soon to suit me.
I've had enough excitement."

"And we didn't see anything of those other fellows whom we heard
about," spoke Mr. Damon, as the big airship flew on.

"No," said Tom. "But I'm not worrying about them."

They made another stop in Lima, on their homeward trip, to renew their
supply of gasolene, and there learned that the rival picture men had
arrived at the volcano too late to see it in operation. This news came
to a relative of one of the two men who lived in Lima.

"Then our views of the earthquake and the smoking mountain will be the
only ones, and your company can control the rights," said Tom to Mr.
Nestor, who agreed with him.

In due time, and without anything out of the ordinary happening the
Flyer reached Shopton, where Tom found a warm welcome awaiting him, not
only from his father, but from a certain young lady, whose name I do
not need to mention.

"And so you got everything you went after, didn't you, Tom," exclaimed
Mr. Period, a few days later, when he had come from New York to get the
remainder of the films.

"Yes, and some things I didn't expect," replied Tom. "There was--"

"Yes! Yes! I know!" interrupted the odd picture man. "It was that
jungle fire. That's a magnificent series. None better. And those
scoundrels took your camera; eh?"

"Yes. Could you connect them with Turbot and Eckert?" asked Tom.

"No, but I'm sure they were acting for them just the same. I had no
legal evidence to act on, however, so I had to let it go.  Turbot and
Eckert won't be in it when I start selling duplicates of the films you
have. And these last ought to be the best of all. I didn't catch that
fellow when I raced after him on the dock. He got away, and has steered
clear of me since," finished Mr. Period.

"And our rivals didn't secure any views like ours," said Tom.

"I'm glad of it," spoke Mr. Period. "Turbot and Eckert bribed one of my
men, and so found out where I was sending messages to you. They even
got a copy of my cablegram. But it did them no good."

"Were all the films clear that I sent you?" asked our hero.

"Every one. Couldn't be better. The animal views were particularly
fine. You must have had your nerve with you to get some of 'em."

"Oh, Tom always has his nerve," laughed Ned.

"Well, how soon will you be ready to start out again?" asked the
picture man, as he packed up the last of the films which Tom gave him.
"I'd like to get some views of a Japanese earthquake, and we haven't
any polar views. I want some of them, taken as near the North Pole as
you can get."

Tom gently shook his head.

"What! You don't mean to say you won't get them for me?" cried Mr.
Period. "With that wonderful camera of yours you can get views no one
else ever could."

"Then some one else will have to take them," remarked the young
inventor. "I'll lend you the camera, and an airship, and you can go
yourself, Mr. Period. I'm going to stay home for a while. I did what I
set out to do, and that's enough."

"I'm glad you'll stay home, Tom," said his father. "Now perhaps I'll
get my gyroscope finished."

"And I, my noiseless airship," went on our hero. "No, Mr. Period,
you'll have to excuse me this time. Why don't you go yourself?" he
asked. "You would know just what kind of pictures you wanted."

"No, I'm a promoter of the moving picture business, and I sell films,
but I don't know how to take them," was the answer.  "Besides
I--er--well, I don't exactly care for airships, Tom Swift," he finished
with a laugh. "Well, I can't thank you enough for what you did for me,
and I've brought you a check to cover your expenses, and pay you as I
agreed. All the same I'm sorry you won't start for Japan, or the North
Pole."

"Nothing doing," said Tom with a laugh; and Mr. Period departed.

"Have you any idea what you will do next?" asked Ned, a day or so
later, when he and Tom were in the workshop.

"I can't tell until I finish my noiseless airship," was the answer.
"Then something may happen."

Something did, as I shall have the pleasure of telling you about in the
next volume of this series, to be called, "Tom Swift and His Great
Searchlight; or, On the Border for Uncle Sam," and in it will be given
an account of a great lantern our hero made, and how he baffled the
smugglers with it.

"Oh, Tom, weren't you dreadfully frightened when you saw that burning
river of lava coming toward you?" asked Mary Nestor, when the young
inventor called on her later and told her some of his adventures. "I
should have been scared to death."

"Well, I didn't have time to get scared," answered Tom. "It all
happened so quickly, and then, too I was thinking of my camera.  Next I
knew Koku grabbed me, and it was all over."

"But those wild beasts! Didn't they frighten you, especially when the
rhinoceros charged you?"

"If you won't let it get out, I'll make a confession to you," said Tom,
lowering his voice. "I was scared stiff that time, but don't let Ned
know it."

"I won't," promised Mary with a laugh. And now, when Tom is in such
pleasant company, we will take leave of him for a while, knowing that,
sooner or later, he will be seeking new adventures as exciting as those
of the past.

THE END





Tom Swift and His Great Searchlight

or

On the Border for Uncle Sam

by Victor Appleton

AUTHOR OF "TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR-CYCLE," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS
SUBMARINE BOAT," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS WIRELESS MESSAGE," "TOM SWIFT IN
CAPTIVITY," ETC.

ILLUSTRATED




CONTENTS

     I   A SCRAP OF PAPER
    II   A SPY IN TOWN
   III   QUEER REPAIRS
    IV   SEARCHING FOR SMUGGLERS
     V   THE RAID
    VI   THE APPEAL TO TOM
   VII   A SEARCHLIGHT IS NEEDED
  VIII   TOM'S NEWEST INVENTION
    IX   "BEWARE OF THE COMET!"
     X   OFF FOR THE BORDER
    XI   ANDY'S NEW AIRSHIP
   XII   WARNED AWAY
  XIII   KOKU SAVES THE LIGHT
   XIV   A FALSE CLEW
    XV   THE RESCUE ON THE LAKE
   XVI   KOKU'S PRISONER
  XVII   WHAT THE INDIAN SAW
 XVIII   THE PURSUIT
   XIX   IN DIRE PERIL
    XX   SUSPICIOUS ACTIONS
   XXI   MR. PERIOD ARRIVES
  XXII   HOVERING O'ER THE BORDER
 XXIII   NED IS MISSING
  XXIV   THE NIGHT RACE
   XXV   THE CAPTURE--CONCLUSION



TOM SWIFT AND HIS GREAT SEARCHLIGHT




CHAPTER I

A SCRAP OF PAPER


"Tom, did you know Andy Foger was back in town?"

"Great Scott, no, I didn't Ned! Not to stay, I hope."

"I guess not. The old Foger homestead is closed up, though I did see
a man working around it to-day as I came past. But he was a
carpenter, making some repairs I think. No, I don't believe Andy is
here to stay."

"But if some one is fixing up the house, it looks as if the family
would come back," remarked Tom, as he thought of the lad who had so
long been his enemy, and who had done him many mean turns before
leaving Shopton, where our hero lived.

"I don't think so," was the opinion of Ned Newton, who was Tom
Swift's particular chum. "You know when Mr. Foger lost all his
money, the house was supposed to be sold. But I heard later that
there was some flaw in the title, and the sale fell through. It is
because he couldn't sell the place that Mr. Foger couldn't get money
to pay some of his debts. He has some claim on the house, I believe,
but I don't believe he'd come back to live in it."

"Why not?"

"Because it's too expensive a place for a poor man to keep up, and
Mr. Foger is now poor."

"Yes, he didn't get any of the gold, as we did when we went to the
underground city," remarked Tom. "Well, I don't wish anybody bad
luck but I certainly hope the Fogers keep poor enough to stay away
from Shopton. They bothered me enough. But where did you see Andy?"

"Oh, he was with his crony, Sam Snedecker. You know Sam said, some
time ago, that Andy was to pay him a visit, but Andy didn't come
then, for some reason or other. I suppose this call makes up for it.
I met them down near Parker's drug store."

"You didn't hear Andy say anything about coming back here?" and the
young inventor's voice was a trifle anxious.

"No," replied Ned. "What makes you so nervous about it?"

"Well, Ned, you know what Andy is--always trying to make trouble for
me, even sneaking in my shop sometimes, trying to get the secret of
some of my airships and machinery. And I admit I think it looks
suspicious when they have a carpenter working on the old homestead.
Andy may come back, and--"

"Nonsence, Tom! If he does you and I can handle him. But I think
perhaps the house may be rented, and they may be fixing it up for a
tenant. It's been vacant a long time you know, and I heard the other
day that it was haunted."

"Haunted, Ned! Get out! Say, you don't believe in that sort of bosh,
do you?"

"Of course not. It was Eradicate who told me, and he said when he
came past the place quite late the other night he heard groans, and
the clanking of chains coming from it, and he saw flashing lights."

"Oh, wow! Eradicate is getting batty in his old age, poor fellow! He
and his mule Boomerang are growing old together, and I guess my
colored helper is 'seeing things,' as well as hearing them. But, as
you say, it may be that the house is going to be rented. It's too
valuable a property to let stand idle. Did you hear how long Andy
was going to stay?"

"A week, I believe."

"A week! Say, one day would be enough I should think."

"You must have some special reason for being afraid Andy will do you
some harm," exclaimed Ned. "Out with it, Tom."

"Well, I'll tell you what it is, Ned," and Tom led his chum inside
the shop, in front of which the two lads had been talking. It was a
shop where the young inventor constructed many of his marvelous
machines, aircraft, and instruments of various sorts.

"Do you think some one may hear you?" asked Ned.

"They might. I'm not taking any chances. But the reason I want to be
especially careful that Andy Foger doesn't spy on any of my
inventions is that at last I have perfected my noiseless airship
motor!"

"You have!" cried Ned, for he knew that his chum had been working
for a long time on this motor, that would give out no sound, no
matter at how high a speed it was run. "That's great, Tom! I
congratulate you. I don't wonder you don't want Andy to get even a
peep at it."

"Especially as I haven't it fully patented," went on the young
inventor. He had met with many failures in his efforts to perfect
this motor, which he intended to install on one of his airships. "If
any one saw the finished parts now it wouldn't take them long to
find out the secret of doing away with the noise."

"How do you do it?" asked Ned, for he realized that his chum had no
secrets from him.

"Well, it's too complicated to describe," said Tom, "but the secret
lies in a new way of feeding gasolene into the motor, a new sparking
device, and an improved muffler. I think I could start my new
airship in front of the most skittish horse, and he wouldn't stir,
for the racket wouldn't wake a baby. It's going to be great."

"What are you going to do with it, when you get it all completed?"

"I haven't made up my mind yet. It's going to be some time before I
get it all put together, and installed, and in that time something
may turn up. Well, let's talk about something more pleasant than
Andy Foger. I guess I won't worry about him."

"No, I wouldn't. I'd like to see the motor run."

"You can, in a day or so, but just now I need a certain part to
attach to the sparker, and I had to send to town for it. Koku has
gone after it."

"What, that big giant servant? He might break it on the way back,
he's so strong. He doesn't realize how much muscle he has."

"No, that's so. Well, while we're waiting for him, come on in the
house, and I'll show you some new books I got."

The two lads were soon in the Swift homestead, a pleasant and large
old-fashioned residence, in the suburbs of Shopton. Tom brought out
the books, and he and his chum poured over them.

"Mr. Damon gave me that one on electricity," explained the young
inventor, handing Ned a bulky volume.

"'Bless my bookmark!' as Mr. Damon himself would say if he were
here," exclaimed Ned with a laugh. "That's a dandy. But Mr. Damon
didn't give you THIS one," and Ned picked up a dainty volume of
verse. "'To Tom Swift, with the best wishes of Mary--'" but that
was as far as he read, for Tom grabbed the book away, and closed the
cover over the flyleaf, which bore some writing in a girl's hand. I
think my old readers can guess whose hand it was.

"Wow! Tom Swift reading poetry!" laughed Ned.

"Oh, cut it out," begged his chum. "I didn't know that was among the
books. I got it last Christmas. Now here's a dandy one on lion
hunting, Ned," and to cover his confusion Tom shoved over a book
containing many pictures of wild animals.

"Lion hunting; eh," remarked Ned. "Well, I guess you could give them
some points on snapping lions with your moving picture camera, Tom."

"Yes, I got some good views," admitted the young inventor modestly.
"I may take the camera along on some trips in my noiseless airship.
Hello! here comes Koku back. I hope he got what I wanted."

A man, immense in size, a veritable giant, one of two whom Tom Swift
had brought away from captivity with him, was entering the front
gate. He stopped to speak to Mr. Swift, Tom's father, who was
setting out some plants in a flower bed, taking them from a large
wheel barrow filled with the blooms.

Mr. Swift, who was an inventor of note, had failed in his health of
late, and the doctor had recommended him to be out of doors as much
as possible. He delighted in gardening, and was at it all day.

"Look!" suddenly cried Ned, pointing to the giant. Then Tom and his
chum saw a strange sight.

With a booming laugh, Koku picked up Mr. Swift gently and set him on
a board that extended across the front part of the wheel barrow.
Then, as easily as if it was a pound weight, the big man lifted Mr.
Swift, barrow, plants and all, in his two hands, and carried them
across the garden to another flower bed, that was ready to be
filled.

"No use to walk when I can carry you, Mr. Swift," exclaimed Koku
with a laugh. "I overtook you quite nice; so?"

"Yes, you took me over in great shape, Koku!" replied the aged
inventor with a smile at Koku's English, for the giant frequently
got his words backwards. "That barrow is quite heavy for me to
wheel."

"You after this call me," suggested Koku.

"Say, but he's strong all right," exclaimed Ned, "and that was an
awkward thing to carry."

"It sure was," agreed Tom. "I haven't yet seen any one strong enough
to match Koku. And he's gentle about it, too. He's very fond of
dad."

"And you too, I guess," added Ned.

"Well, Koku, did you get that attachment?" asked Tom, as his giant
servant entered the room.

"Yes, Mr. Tom. I have it here," and from his pocket Koku drew a
heavy piece of steel that would have taxed the strength of either of
the boys to lift with one hand. But Koku's pockets were very large
and made specially strong of leather, for he was continually putting
odd things in them.

Koku handed over the attachment, for which his master had sent him.
He held it out on a couple of fingers, as one might a penknife, but
Tom took both hands to set it on the ground.

"I the female get, also," went on Koku, as he began taking some
letters and papers from his pocket. "I stop in the office post, and
the female get."

"Mail, Koku, not female," corrected Tom with a laugh. "A female is a
lady you know."

"For sure I know, and the lady in the post office gave me the
female. That is I said what, did I not?"

"Well, I guess you meant it all right," remarked Ned. "But letter
mail and a male man and a female woman are all different."

"Oh such a language!" gasped the giant. "I shall never learn it.
Well, then, Mr. Tom, here is your mail, that the female lady gave to
me for you, and you are a male. It is very strange."

Koku pulled out a bundle of letters, which Tom took, and then the
giant continued to delve for more. One of the papers, rolled in a
wrapper, stuck on the edge of the pocket.

"You must outcome!" exclaimed Koku, giving it a sudden yank, and it
"outcame" with such suddenness that the paper was torn in half,
tightly wrapped as it was, and it was considerable of a bundle.

"Koku, you're getting too strong!" exclaimed Tom, as scraps of paper
were scattered about the room. "I think I'll give you less to eat."

"I am your forgiveness," said Koku humbly, as he stooped over to
pick up the fragments. "I did not mean."

"It's all right," said Tom kindly. "That's only a big bundle of
Sunday papers I guess."

"I'll give him a hand," volunteered Ned, stooping over to help Koku
clear the rug of the litter. As he did so Tom's chum gave a gasp of
surprise.

"Hello, Tom!" Ned cried. "Here's something new, and I guess it will
interest you."

"What is it?"

"It's part of an account of some daring smugglers who are working
goods across the Canadian border into the northern part of this
state. The piece is torn, but there's something here which says the
government agents suspect the men of using airships to transport the
stuff."

"Airships! Smugglers using airships!" cried Tom. "It doesn't seem
possible!"

"That's what it says here, Tom. It says the custom house authorities
have tried every way to catch them, and when they couldn't land 'em,
the only theory they could account for the way the smuggling was
going on was by airships, flying at night."

"That's odd. I wonder how it would seem to chase a smuggler in an
airship at night? Some excitement about that; eh, Ned? Let's see
that scrap of paper."

Ned passed it over, and Tom scanned it closely. Then in his turn, he
uttered an exclamation of surprise.

"What is it?" inquired his chum.

"Great Scott, Ned, listen to this! 'It is suspected that some of the
smugglers have'--then there's a place where the paper is torn-'in
Shopton, N.Y.'" finished Tom. "Think of that, Ned. Our town here, is
in some way connected with the airship smugglers! We must find the
rest of this scrap of paper, and paste it together. This may be a
big thing! Find that other scrap! Koku, you go easy on papers next
time," cautioned Tom, good naturedly, as he and his chum began
sorting over the torn parts of the paper.




CHAPTER II

A SPY IN TOWN


Tom Swift, Ned Newton and Koku, the giant, are busy trying to piece
together the torn parts of the paper, containing an account of the
airship smugglers. I will take the opportunity of telling you
something about the young inventor and his work, for, though many of
my readers have made Tom's acquaintances in previous books of this
series, there may be some who pick up this one as their first
volume.

Tom lived with his father, also an inventor of note, in the town of
Shopton, New York state. His mother was dead, and a Mrs. Baggert
kept house. Eradicate was an eccentric, colored helper, but of late
had become too old to do much. Mr. Swift was also quite aged, and
had been obliged to give up most of his inventive work.

Ned Newton was Tom Swift's particular chum, and our hero had another
friend, a Mr. Wakefield Damon, of the neighboring town of Waterford.
Mr. Damon had the odd habit of blessing everything he saw or could
think of. Another of Tom's friends was Miss Mary Nestor, whom I have
mentioned, while my old readers will readily recognize in Andy Foger
a mean bully, who made much trouble for Tom.

The first book of the series was called "Tom Swift and His
Motor-Cycle," and on that machine Tom had many advances on the road,
and not a little fun. After that Tom secured a motor boat, and had a
race with Andy Foger. In his airship our hero made a stirring cruise,
while in his submarine boat he and his father recovered a sunken
treasure.

When Tom Swift invented a new electric run-about he did not realize
that it was to be the speediest car on the road, but so it proved,
and he was able to save the bank with it. In the book called "Tom
Swift and His Wireless Message," I told you how he saved the
castaways of Earthquake Island, among whom were Mr. and Mrs. Nestor,
the parents of Mary.

Tom Swift had not been long on the trail of the diamond makers
before he discovered the secret of Phantom Mountain, and after that
adventure he went to the caves of ice, where his big airship was
wrecked. But he got home, and soon made another, which he called a
sky racer, and in that he made the quickest flight on record.

With his electric rifle Tom went to elephant land, where he
succeeded in rescuing two missionaries from the red pygmies. A
little later he set out for the city of gold, and had marvelous
adventures underground.

Hearing of a deposit of valuable platinum in Siberia, Tom started
for that lonely place, and, to reach a certain part of if, he had to
invent a new machine, called an air glider. It was an aeroplane
without means of propulsion save the wind.

In the book, "Tom Swift in Captivity," I related the particulars of
how he brought away two immense men from giant land. One, Koku, he
kept for himself, while the other made a good living by being
exhibited in a circus.

When the present story opens Tom had not long been home after a
series of strange adventures. A moving picture concern, with which
Mr. Nestor was associated, wanted some views of remarkable scenes,
such as fights among wild beasts, the capture of herds of elephants,
earthquakes, and volcanos in action, and great avalanches in the
Alps. Tom invented a wizard camera, and got many good views, though
at times he was in great danger, even in his airship. Especially was
this so at the erupting volcano.

But our hero came swiftly back to Shopton, and there, all Winter and
Spring, he busied himself perfecting a new motor for an airship--a
motor that would make no noise. He perfected it early that Summer,
and now was about to try it, when the incident of the torn newspaper
happened.

"Have you got all the pieces, Tom?" asked Ned, as he passed his chum
several scraps, which were gathered up from the floor.

"I think so. Now we'll paste them together, and see what it says. We
may be on the trail of a big mystery, Ned."

"Maybe. Go ahead and see what you can make of it."

Tom fitted together, as best he could, the ragged pieces, and then
pasted them on a blank sheet of paper.

"I guess I've got it all here now," he said finally. "I'll skip the
first part. You read me most of that, Ned. Just as you told me, it
relates how the government agents, having tried in vain to get a
clew to the smugglers, came to the conclusion that they must be
using airships to slip contraband goods over the border at night."

"Now where's that mention of Shopton? Oh, here it is," and he read:

"'It is suspected that some of the smugglers have been communicating
with confederates in Shopton, New York. This came to the notice of
the authorities to-day, when one of the government agents located
some of the smuggled goods in a small town in New York on the St.
Lawrence. The name of this town is being kept secret for the
present."

"'It was learned that the goods were found in a small, deserted
house, and that among them were letters from someone in Shopton,
relating to the disposal of the articles. They refuse to say who the
letters were from, but it is believed that some of Uncle Sam's men
may shortly make their appearance in the peaceful burg of Shopton,
there to follow up the clew. Many thousands of dollars worth of
goods have been smuggled, and the United States, as well as the
Dominion of Canada custom authorities, say they are determined to
put a stop to the daring efforts of the smugglers. The airship
theory is the latest put forth.'"

"Well, say, that's the limit!" cried Ned, as Tom finished reading.
"What do you know about that?"

"It brings it right home to us," agreed the young inventor. "But who
is there in Shopton who would be in league with the smugglers?"

"That's hard to say."

"Of course we don't know everyone in town," went on Tom, "but I'm
pretty well acquainted here, and I don't know of a person who would
dare engage in such work."

"Maybe it's a stranger who came here, and picked out this place
because it was so quiet," suggested Ned.

"That's possible. But where would he operate from?" asked Tom.
"There are few in Shopton who would want to buy smuggled goods."

"They may only ship them here, and fix them so they can't be
recognized by the custom authorities, and then send them away
again," went on Ned. "This may be a sort of clearing-house for the
smugglers."

"That's so. Well, I don't know as we have anything to do with it.
Only if those fellows are using an airship I'd like to know what
kind it is. Well, come on out to the shop now, and we'll see how the
silent motor works."

On the way Tom passed his father, and, telling him not to work too
hard in the sun, gave his parent the piece of paper to read, telling
about the smugglers.

"Using airships! eh?" exclaimed Mr. Swift. "And they think there's a
clew here in Shopton? Well, we'll get celebrated if we keep on,
Tom," he added with a smile.

Tom and Ned spent the rest of the day working over the motor, which
was set going, and bore out all Tom claimed for it. It was as silent
as a watch.

"Next I want to get it in the airship, and give it a good test," Tom
remarked, speeding it up, as it was connected on a heavy base in the
shop.

"I'll help you," promised Ned, and for the next few days the chums
were kept busy fitting the silent motor into one of Tom's several
airships.

"Well, I think we can make a flight to-morrow," said the young
inventor, about a week later. "I need some new bolts though, Ned.
Let's take a walk into town and get them. Oh, by the way, have you
seen anything more of Andy Foger?"

"No, and I don't want to. I suppose he's gone back home after his
visit to Sam. Let's go down the street, where the Foger house is,
and see if there's anything going on."

As the two lads passed the mansion, they saw a man, in the kind of
suit usually worn by a carpenter, come out of the back door and
stand looking across the garden. In his hand he held a saw.

"Still at the repairs, I guess," remarked Ned. "I wonder what--"

"Look there! Look! Quick!" suddenly interrupted Tom, and Ned,
looking, saw someone standing behind the carpenter in the door. "If
that isn't Andy Foger, I'll eat my hat!" cried Tom.

"It sure is," agreed Ned. "What in the world is he doing there?"

But his question was not answered, for, a moment later, Andy turned,
and went inside, and the carpenter followed, closing the door behind
them.

"That's queer," spoke Tom.

"Very," agreed Ned. "He didn't go back after all. I'd like to know
what's going on in there."

"And there's someone else who would like to know, also, I think,"
said Tom in a low voice.

"Who?" asked Ned.

"That man hiding behind the big tree across the street. I'm sure
he's watching the Foger house, and when Andy came to the door that
time, I happened to look around and saw that man focus a pair of
opera glasses on him and the carpenter."

"You don't mean it, Tom!" exclaimed Ned.

"I sure do. I believe that man is some sort of a spy or a
detective."

"Do you think he's after Andy?"

"I don't know. Let's not get mixed up in the affair, anyhow. I don't
want to be called in as a witness. I haven't the time to spare."

As if the man behind the tree was aware that he had attracted the
attention of our friends, he quickly turned and walked away. Tom and
Ned glanced up at the Foger house, but saw nothing, and proceeded on
to the store.

"I'll wager anything that Andy has been getting in some sort of
trouble in the town he moved to from here," went on Tom, "and he
daren't go back. So he came here, and he's hiding in his father's
old house. He could manage to live there for a while, with the
carpenter bringing him in food. Say, did you notice who that man
was, with the saw?"

"Yes, he's James Dillon, a carpenter who lives down on our street,"
replied Ned. "A nice man, too. The next time I see him, I'm going to
ask him what Andy is doing in town, and what the repairs are that
he's making on the house."

"Well, of course if Andy has been doing anything wrong, he wouldn't
admit it," said Tom. "Though Mr. Dillon may tell you about the
carpenter work. But I'm sure that man was a detective from the town
where Andy moved to. You'll see."

"I don't think so," was Ned's opinion. "If Andy was hiding he
wouldn't show himself as plainly as he did."

The two chums argued on this question, but could come to no
decision. Then, having reached Tom's home with the bolts, they went
hard at work on the airship.

"Well, now to see what happens!" exclaimed Tom the next day, when
everything was ready for a trial flight. "I wish Mr. Damon was here.
I sent him word, but I didn't hear from him."

"Oh, he may show up any minute," replied Ned, as he helped Tom and
Koku wheel the newly-equipped airship out of the shed. "The first
thing you'll hear will be him blessing something. Is this far enough
out, Tom?"

"No, a little more, and then head her up into the wind. I say, Ned,
if this is a success, and--"

Tom stopped suddenly and looked out into the road. Then, in a low
voice, he said, to Ned:

"Don't move suddenly, or he'll suspect that we're onto his game, but
turn around slowly, and look behind that big sycamore tree in front
of our house Ned. Tell me what you see."

"There's a man hiding there, Tom," reported his chum, a little
later, after a cautious observation.

"I thought so. What's he doing?"

"Why he--by Jove! Tom, he's looking at us through opera glasses,
like that other--"

"It isn't ANOTHER, it's the same fellow!" whispered Tom. "It's the
spy who was watching Andy! I'm going to see what's up," and he
strode rapidly toward the street, at the curb of which was the tree
that partly screened the man behind it.




CHAPTER III

QUEER REPAIRS


Quickly Tom Swift crossed the space between the airship, that was
ready for a flight, and the tree. The man behind it had apparently
not seen Tom coming, being so interested in looking at the airship,
which was a wonderful craft. He was taken completely by surprise as
Tom, stepping up to him, asked sharply:

"Who are you and what are you doing here?"

The man started so that he nearly dropped the opera glasses, which
he had held focused on the aeroplane. Then he stepped back, and eyed
Tom sharply.

"What do you want?" repeated our hero. "What right have you to be
spying on that airship--on these premises?" The man hesitated a
moment, and then coolly returned the glasses to his pocket. He did
not seem at all put out, after his first start of surprise.

"What are you doing?" Tom again asked. He looked around to see where
Koku, the giant, was, and beheld the big man walking slowly toward
him, for Ned had mentioned what had taken place.

"What right have you to question my actions?" asked the man, and
there was in his tones a certain authority that made Tom wonder.

"Every right," retorted our hero. "That is my airship, at which you
have been spying, and this is where I live."

"Oh, it is; eh?" asked the man calmly. "And that's your airship,
too?"

"I invented it, and built the most of it myself. If you are
interested in such things, and can assure me that you have no spying
methods in view, I can show you--"

"Have you other airships?" interrupted the man quickly.

"Yes, several," answered Tom. "But I can't understand why you should
be spying on me. If you don't care to accept my offer, like a
gentleman, tell me who you are, and what your object is, I will have
my assistant remove you. You are on private property, as this street
is not a public one, being cut through by my father. I'll have Koku
remove you by force, if you won't go peaceably, and I think you'll
agree with me that Koku can do it. Here Koku," he called sharply,
and the big man advanced quickly.

"I wouldn't do anything rash, if I were you," said the man quietly.
"As for this being private property, that doesn't concern me. You're
Tom Swift, aren't you; and you have several airships?"

"Yes, but what right have you to--"

"Every right!" interrupted the man, throwing back the lapel of his
coat, and showing a badge. "I'm Special Agent William Whitford, of
the United States Customs force, and I'd like to ask you a few
questions, Tom Swift." He looked our hero full in the face.

"Customs department!" gasped Tom. "You want to ask me some
questions?"

"That's it," went on the man, in a business-like voice.

"What about?"

"Smuggling by airship from Canada!"

"What!" cried Tom. "Do you mean to say you suspect me of being
implicated in--"

"Now go easy," advised the man calmly. "I didn't say anything,
except that I wanted to QUESTION you. If you'd like me to do it out
here, why I can. But as someone might hear us--"

"Come inside," said Tom quietly, though his heart was beating in a
tumult. "You may go, Koku, but stay within call," he added
significantly. "Come on, Ned," and he motioned to his chum who was
approaching. "This man is a custom officer and not a spy or a
detective, as we thought."

"Oh, yes, I am a SORT of a detective," corrected Mr. Whitford. "And
I'm a spy, too, in a way, for I've been spying on you, and some
other parties in town. But you may be able to explain everything,"
he added, as he took a seat in the library between Ned and Tom. "I
only know I was sent here to do certain work, and I'm going to do
it. I wanted to make some observations before you saw me, but I
wasn't quite quick enough."

"Would you mind telling me what you want to know?" asked Tom, a bit
impatiently. "You mentioned smuggling, and--"

"Smuggling!" interrupted Ned.

"Yes, over from Canada. Maybe you have seen something in the papers
about our department thinking airships were used at night to slip
the goods over the border."

"We saw it!" cried Tom eagerly. "But how does that concern me?"

"I'll come to that, presently," replied Mr. Whitford. "In the first
place, we have been roundly laughed at in some papers for proposing
such a theory. And yet it isn't so wild as it sounds. In fact, after
seeing your airship, Tom Swift, I'm convinced--"

"That I've been smuggling?" asked Tom with a laugh.

"Not at all. As you have read, we confiscated some smuggled goods
the other day, and among them was a scrap of paper with the words
Shopton, New York, on it."

"Was it a letter from someone here, or to someone here?" asked Ned.
"The papers intimated so."

"No. they only guessed at that part of it. It was just a scrap of
paper, evidently torn from a letter, and it only had those three
words on it. Naturally we agents thought we could get a clew here.
We imagined, or at least I did, for I was sent to work up this end,
that perhaps the airships for the smugglers were made here. I made
inquiries, and found that you, Tom Swift, and one other, Andy Foger,
had made, or owned, airships in Shopton."

"I came here, but I soon exhausted the possibility of Andy Foger
making practical airships. Besides he isn't at home here any more,
and he has no facilities for constructing the craft as you have. So
I came to look at your place, and I must say that it looks a bit
suspicious, Mr. Swift. Though, of course, as I said," he added with
a smile, "you may be able to explain everything."

"I think I can convince you that I had no part in the smuggling,"
spoke Tom, laughing. "I never sell my airships. If you like you may
talk with my father, the housekeeper, and others who can testify
that since my return from taking moving pictures, I have not been
out of town, and the smuggling has been going on only a little
while."

"That is true," assented the custom officer. "I shall be glad to
listen to any evidence you may offer. This is a very baffling case.
The government is losing thousands of dollars every month, and we
can't seem to stop the smugglers, or get much of a clew to them.
This one is the best we have had so far."

It did not take Tom many hours to prove to the satisfaction of Mr.
Whitford that none of our hero's airships had taken any part in
cheating Uncle Sam out of custom duties.

"Well, I don't know what to make of it," said the government agent,
with a disappointed air, as he left the office of the Shopton chief
of police, who, with others, at Tom's request, had testified in his
favor. "This looked like a good clew, and now it's knocked into a
cocked hat. There's no use bothering that Foger fellow," he went on,
"for he has but one airship, I understand."

"And that's not much good." put in Ned. "I guess it's partly
wrecked, and Andy has kept it out in the barn since he moved away."

"Well, I guess I'll be leaving town then," went on the agent. "I
can't get any more clews here, and there may be some new ones found
on the Canadian border where my colleagues are trying to catch the
rascals. I'm sorry I bothered you, Tom Swift. You certainly have a
fine lot of airships," he added, for he had been taken through the
shop, and shown the latest, noiseless model. "A fine lot. I don't
believe the smugglers, if they use them, have any better."

"Nor as good!" exclaimed Ned. "Tom's can't be beat."

"It's too late for our noiseless trial now," remarked Tom, after the
agent had gone. "Let's put her back in the shed, and then I'll take
you down street, and treat you to some ice cream, Ned. It's getting
quite summery now."

As the boys were coming out of the drug store, where they had eaten
their ice cream in the form of sundaes, Ned uttered a cry of
surprise at the sight of a man approaching them.

"It's Mr. Dillon, the carpenter whom we saw in the Foger house,
Tom!" exclaimed his chum. "This is the first chance I've had to talk
to him. I'm going to ask him what sort of repairs he's making inside
the old mansion." Ned was soon in conversation with him.

"Yes, I'm working at the Foger house," admitted the carpenter, who
had done some work for Ned's father. "Mighty queer repairs, too.
Something I never did before. If Andy wasn't there to tell me what
he wanted done I wouldn't know what to do."

"Is Andy there yet?" asked Tom quickly.

"Yes, he's staying in the old house. All alone too, except now and
then, he has a chum stay there nights with him. They get their own
meals. I bring the stuff in, as Andy says he's getting up a surprise
and doesn't want any of the boys to see him, or ask questions. But
they are sure queer repairs I'm doing," and the carpenter scratched
his head reflectively.

"What are you doing?" asked Ned boldly.

"Fixing up Andy's old airship that was once busted," was the
unexpected answer, "and after I get that done, if I ever do, he
wants me to make a platform for it on the roof of the house, where
he can start it swooping through the air. Mighty queer repairs, I
call 'em. Well, good evening, boys," and the carpenter passed on.




CHAPTER IV

SEARCHING FOR SMUGGLERS.


"Well, of all things!"

"Who in the world would think such a thing?"

"Andy going to start out with his airship again!"

"And going to sail it off the roof of his house!"

These were the alternate expressions that came from Tom and Ned, as
they stood gazing at each other after the startling information
given them by Mr. Dillon, the carpenter.

"Do you really think he means it?" asked Tom, after a pause, during
which they watched the retreating figure of the carpenter. "Maybe he
was fooling us."

"No, Mr. Dillon seldom jokes," replied Ned, "and when he does, you
can always tell. He goes to our church, and I know he wouldn't
deliberately tell an untruth. Oh. Andy's up to some game all right."

"I thought he must be hanging around here the way he has been,
instead of being home. But I admit I may have been wrong about the
police being after him. If he'd done something wrong, he would
hardly hire a man to work on the house while he was hiding in it. I
guess he just wants to keep out of the way of everybody but his own
particular cronies. But I wonder what he is up to, anyhow; getting
his airship in shape again?"

"Give it up, unless there's an aero meet on somewhere soon," replied
Ned. "Maybe he's going to try a race again."

Tom shook his head.

"I'd have heard about any aviation meets, if there were any
scheduled," he replied. "I belong to the national association, and
they send out circulars whenever there are to be races. None are on
for this season. No, Andy has some other game."

"Well, I don't know that it concerns us," spoke Ned.

"Not as long as he doesn't bother me," answered the young inventor.
"Well, Ned, I suppose you'll be over in the morning and help me try
out the noiseless airship?"

"Sure thing. Say, it was queer, about that government agent, wasn't
it? suspecting you of supplying airships to the smugglers?"

"Rather odd," agreed Tom. "He might much better suspect Andy Foger."

"That's so, and now that we know Andy is rebuilding his old airship,
maybe we'd better tell him."

"Tell who?"

"That government agent. Tell him he's wrong in thinking that Andy is
out of the game. We might send him word that we just learned that
Andy is getting active again. He has as much right to suspect and
question him, as he had you."

"Oh, I don't know," began Tom slowly. He was not a vindicative
youth, nor, for that matter, was Ned. And Tom would not go out of
his way to give information about an enemy, when it was not certain
that the said enemy meant anything wrong. "I don't believe there's
anything in it," finished our hero. "Andy may have a lot of time on
his hands, and, for want of something better to do, he's fixing up
his aeroplane."

"Look!" suddenly exclaimed Ned. "There's that agent now! He's going
to the depot to get a train, I guess," and he pointed to the
government man, who had so lately interviewed Tom. "I'm going to
speak to him!" impulsively declared Ned.

"I wouldn't," objected Tom, but his chum had already hastened on
ahead, and soon was seen talking excitedly to Mr. Whitford. Tom
sauntered up in time to hear the close of the conversation.

"I'm much obliged to you for your information," said the custom
officer, "but I'm afraid, just as you say your chum felt about it,
that there's nothing in it. This Foger chap may have been bad in the
past, but I hardly think he's in with the smugglers. What I'm
looking for is not a lad who has one airship, but someone who is
making a lot of them, and supplying the men who are running goods
over the border. That's the sort of game I'm after, and if this Andy
Foger only has one aeroplane I hardly think he can be very
dangerous."

"Well, perhaps not," admitted Ned. "But I thought I'd tell you."

"And I'm glad you did. If you hear anything more, I'll be glad to
have you let me know. Here's my card," and thanking the boys for
their interest Mr. Whitford passed on.

Tom and Ned gave the noiseless airship a test the next day. The
craft, which was the stanch Falcon, remodeled, was run out of the
shed, Koku the giant helping, while Mr. Swift stood looking on, an
interested spectator of what his son was about to do. Eradicate, the
old colored man, who was driving his mule Boomerang, hitched to a
wagon in which he was carting away some refuse that had been raked
up in the garden, halted his outfit nearby.

"I say, Massa Tom!" he called, as the young inventor passed near
him, in making a tour of the ship.

"Well, Rad, what is it?"

"Doan't yo'-all want fo' ma an' Boomerang t' gib yo'-all a tow?
Mebby dat new-fangled contraption yo'-all has done put on yo' ship
won't wuk, an' mebby I'd better stick around t' pull yo'-all home."

"No, Rad, I guess it will work all right. If it doesn't, and we get
stuck out a mile or two, I'll send you a wireless message."

"Doan't do dat!" begged the colored man. "I neber could read dem
wireless letters anyhow. Jest gib a shout, an' me an' Boomerang will
come a-runnin'."

"All right, Rad, I will. Now, Ned, is everything in shape?"

"I think so, Tom."

"Koku, just put a little more wind in those tires. But don't pump as
hard as you did the other day," Tom cautioned.

"What happened then?" asked Ned.

"Oh, Koku forgot that he had so much muscle, and he kept on pumping
air into the bicycle wheel tires until he burst one. Go easy this
time, Koku."

"I will, Mr. Tom," and the giant took the air pump.

"Is he going along?" asked Ned, as he looked to see that all the guy
wires and stays were tight.

"I guess so," replied Tom. "He makes good ballast. I wish Mr. Damon
was here. If everything goes right we may take a run over, and
surprise him."

In a little while the noiseless airship was ready for the start.
Tom, Ned and Koku climbed in, and took their positions.

"Good luck!" Mr. Swift called after them. Tom waved his hand to his
father, and the next moment his craft shot into the air. Up and up
it went, the great propeller blades beating the air, but, save for a
soft whirr, such as would be made by the wings of a bird, there was
absolutely no sound.

"Hurrah!" cried Tom. "She works! I've got a noiseless airship at
last!"

"Say, don't yell at a fellow so," begged Ned, for Tom had been close
to his chum when he made his exulting remark.

"Yell! I wasn't yelling," replied Tom. "Oh, I see what happened. I'm
so used to speaking loud on the other airships, that make such a
racket, that I didn't realize how quiet it was aboard the new
Falcon. No wonder I nearly made you deaf, Ned. I'll be careful after
this," and Tom lowered his voice to ordinary tones. In fact it was
as quiet aboard his new craft, as if he and Ned had been walking in
some grass-grown country lane.

"She certainly is a success," agreed Ned. "You could creep up on
some other airship now, and those aboard would never know you were
coming."

"I've been planning this for a long time," went on our hero, as he
shifted the steering gear, and sent the craft around in a long,
sweeping curve. "Now for Waterford and Mr. Damon."

They were soon above the town where the odd man lived, and Tom,
picking out Mr. Damon's house, situated as it was in the midst of
extensive grounds, headed for it.

"There he is, walking through the garden," exclaimed Ned, pointing
to their friend down below. "He hasn't heard us, as he would have
done if we had come in any other machine."

"That's so!" exclaimed Tom. "I'm going to give him a sensation. I'll
fly right over his head, and he won't know it until he sees us. I'll
come up from behind."

A moment later he put this little trick into execution. Along swept
the airship, until, with a rush, it passed right over Mr. Damon's
head. He never heard it, and was not aware of what was happening
until he saw the shadow it cast. Then, jumping aside, as if he
thought something was about to fall on him, he cried:

"Bless my mosquito netting! What in the world--"

Then he saw Tom and Ned in the airship, which came gently to earth a
few yards further on.

"Well of all things!" cried Mr. Damon. "What are you up to now, Tom
Swift?"

"It's my noiseless airship," explained our hero. "She doesn't make a
sound. Get aboard, and have a ride."

Mr. Damon looked toward the house.

"I guess my wife won't see me," he said with a chuckle. "She's more
than ever opposed to airships, Tom, since we went on that trip
taking moving pictures. But I'll take a chance." And in he sprang,
when the two lads started up again. They made quite a flight, and
Tom found that his new motor exceeded his expectations. True, it
needed some adjustments, but these could easily be made.

"Well, what are you going to do with it, now that you have it?"
asked Mr. Damon, as Tom once more brought the machine around to the
odd man's house, and stopped it. "What's it for?"

"Oh, I think I'll find a use for it," replied the young inventor.
"Will you come back to Shopton with us?"

"No, I must stay here. I have some letters to write. But I'll run
over in a few days, and see you. Then I'll go on another trip, if
you've got one planned."

"I may have," answered Tom with a laugh. "Good-bye."

He and Ned made a quick flight home, and Tom at once started on
making some changes in the motor. He was engaged at this work the
next day, when he noticed a shadow pass across an open window. He
looked up to see Ned.

"Hello, Tom!" cried his chum. "Have you heard the news?"

"No, what news? Has Andy Foger fallen out of his airship?"

"No, but there are a whole lot of Custom House detectives in town,
looking for clews to the smugglers."

"Still at it, eh? Shopton can't seem to keep out of the limelight.
Has anything new turned up?"

"Yes. I just met Mr. Whitford. He's back on the case and he has
several men with him. They received word that some smuggled goods
came to Shopton, and were shipped out of here again."

"How, by airship?"

"No, by horse and wagon. A lot of cases of valuable silks imported
from England to Canada, where the duty is light, were slipped over
the border somehow, in airships, it is thought. Then they came here
by freight, labeled as calico, and when they reached this town they
were taken away in a wagon."

"But how did they get here?"

"On the railroad, of course, but the freight people had no reason to
suspect them."

"And where were they taken from the freight station?"

"That's what the customs authorities want to find out. They think
there's some secret place here, where the goods are stored and
reshipped. That's why so many detectives are here. They are after the
smugglers hot-footed."




CHAPTER V

THE RAID


Tom Swift dropped the tool he was using, and came over to where Ned
stood, his chum having vaulted in through the open window.

"Ned," said the young inventor, "there's something queer about this
business."

"I'm beginning to think so myself, Tom. But just what do you mean?"

"I mean it's queer that the smugglers should pick out a place like
Shopton--a small town--for their operations, or part of them, when
there are so many better places. We're quite a distance from the
Canadian border. Say, Ned, where was it that Mr. Foger moved to?
Hogan's alley, or some such name as that; wasn't it?"

"Logansville, this state, was the place. I once saw Tom Snedecker
mail Andy a letter addressed to there. But what has that to do with
it?"

Tom's answer was to turn to a large map on the wall of his shop.
With a long stick he pointed out the city of Logansville.

"That isn't very far from the Canadian border; is it, Ned?" he
asked.

"Say, what are you driving at, Tom? It's right on the border between
New York and Canada, according to that map."

"Well, that's a good map, and you can be sure it is nearly right.
And, look here. There's the town of Montford, in Canada, almost
opposite Logansville."

"Well?"

"Oh, nothing, only I'm going to see Mr. Whitford."

"What do you mean, Tom?"

"I mean that the something queer part about this business may be
explained. They have traces of the smugglers sending their goods to
Shopton to be re-shipped here, to avoid suspicion, probably. They
have a suspicion that airships are used to get the goods over the
Canadian border at night."

"But," broke in Ned, "the government agent said that it was across
the St. Lawrence River they brought them. Montford is quite a
distance from the river. I suppose the smugglers take the goods from
the river steamers, land them, pack them in airships, and fly across
with them. But if you're trying to connect the Fogers, and
Logansville, and Montford with the smugglers, I don't see where it
comes in with the St. Lawrence, and the airships, Tom."

"Forget that part of it for a while, Ned. Maybe they are all off on
airships, anyhow. I don't take much stock in that theory, though it
may be true."

"Just think of the Fogers," went on Tom. "Mr. Foger has lost all his
money, he lives in a town near the Canadian border, it is almost
certain that smuggled goods have been shipped here. Mr. Foger has a
deserted house here, and--see the connection?"

"By Jove, Tom, I believe you're right!" cried his chum. "Maybe the
airships aren't in it after all, and Andy is only making a bluff at
having his repaired, to cover up some other operations in the
house."

"I believe so."

"But that would mean that Mr. Dillon, the carpenter is not telling
the truth, and I can't believe that of him."

"Oh, I believe he's honest, but I think Andy is fooling him. Mr.
Dillon doesn't know much about airships, and Andy may have had him
doing something in the house, telling him it was repair work on an
airship, when, as a matter of fact, the carpenter might be making
boxes to ship the goods in, or constructing secret places in which
to hide them."

"I don't believe it, Tom. But I agree with you that there is
something queer going on in Shopton. The Fogers may, or may not, be
connected with it. What are you going to do?"

"I'm first going to have a talk with Mr. Whitford. Then I'm going to
see if I can't prove, or disprove, that the Fogers are concerned in
the matter. If they're not, then some one else in Shopton must be
guilty. But I'm interested, because I have been brought into this
thing in a way, and I want it sifted to the bottom."

"Then you're going to see Mr. Whitford?"

"I am, and I'm going to tell him what I think. Come on, we'll look
him up now."

"But your noiseless airship?"

"Oh, that's all right. It's nearly finished anyhow, I've just got a
little more work on the carburetor. That will keep. Come on, we'll
find the government agent."

But Mr. Whitford was not at the hotel where he and the other custom
inspectors had put up. They made no secret of their presence in
Shopton, and all sorts of rumors were flying about regarding them.
Mr. Whitford, the hotel clerk said, had gone out of town for the
day, and, as Ned and Tom did not feel like telling their suspicions
to any of the other agents, they started back home.

"I understand they're going to search every house in Shopton, before
they go away," said the clerk to the boys. "They are going to look
for smuggled goods."

"They are; eh?" exclaimed Colonel Henry Denterby, who had fought in
the Civil War. "Search my house; eh? Well I guess not! A man's house
is his castle, sir! That's what it is. No one shall enter mine, no
matter if he is a government official, unless I give him permission,
sir! And I won't do that, sir! I'll be revolutionized if I do! No,
sir!"

"Why, you haven't any smuggled goods concealed, have you, Colonel?"
slyly asked a hotel lounger.

"Smuggled goods? What do you mean, sir?" cried the veteran, who was
something of a fire-eater. "No, sir! Of course not, sir! I pay my
taxes, sir; and all my debts. But no government spy is going to come
into my house, and upset everything, sir, looking for smuggled
goods, sir. No, sir!"

Some were of one opinion, and some another, and there was quite a
discussion underway concerning the rights of the custom officers, as
the boys came out of the hotel.

Likewise there was talk about who might be the guilty ones, but no
names were mentioned, at least openly.

"Let's go past the Foger house on our way back," proposed Ned, and
as he and Tom came in front of it, they heard a pounding going on
within, but saw no signs of Andy or the carpenter.

"They're keeping mighty close," commented Tom.

The two boys worked that afternoon on the new airship, and in the
evening, when Ned came over, Tom proposed that they make another
attempt to see Mr. Whitford.

"I want to get this thing off my mind," spoke the young inventor,
and he and his chum started for the hotel. Once more they passed the
Foger house. It was in darkness, but, as the two lads stood
watching, they saw a flash of a light, as if it came through a crack
in a shutter or a shade.

"Some one is in there," declared Tom.

"Yes, probably Andy is getting his own supper. It's queer he wants
to lead that sort of a life. Well, everyone to their notion, as the
old lady said when she kissed the cow."

They stood for a few minutes watching the old mansion, and then went
on. As they passed down a lane, to take a short cut, they approached
a small house, that, in times past, had been occupied by the
gardener of the Foger estate. Now, that too, was closed. But, in
front of it stood a wagon with a big canvass cover over it, and, as
the lads came nearer, the wagon drove off quickly, and in silence.
At the same time a door in the gardener's house was heard to shut
softly.

"Did you see that?" cried Ned.

"Yes, and did you hear that?" asked Tom.

"They're carting stuff away from the old gardener's house," went on
Ned. "Maybe it's there that the smugglers are working from! Let's
hurry to see Mr. Whitford."

"Hold on!" exclaimed Tom in a whisper. "I've got one suggestion.
Ned. Let's tell all we know, and what we think may be the case, but
don't make any rash statements. We might be held responsible. Tell
what we have seen, and let the government men do the rest."

"All right. I'm willing."

They watched the wagon as it passed on out of sight in the darkness,
and then hurried on to see Mr. Whitford. To say that the custom
officer was astonished at what the boys related to him, is putting
it mildly. He was much excited.

"I think we're on the right trail!" he exclaimed. "You may have done
a big service for Uncle Sam. Come on!"

"Where?" the boys asked him.

"We'll make a raid on the old Foger home, and on the gardener's
house at once. We may catch the rascals red-handed. You can have the
honor of representing Uncle Sam. I'll make you assistant deputies
for the night. Here are some extra badges I always carry," and he
pinned one each on the two young men.

Mr. Whitford quietly summoned several of his men to his hotel room,
and imparted to them what he had learned. They were eager for the
raid, and it was decided to go to the Foger home, and the other
house at once, first seeking to gain an entrance to the mansion.

Accompanied by Tom and Ned, Mr. Whitford left the hotel. There were
few persons about, and no attention was attracted. The other agents
left the hotel one by one, and in the darkness gathered about the
seemingly deserted mansion.

"Stand ready now, men," whispered Mr. Whitford. "Tom, Ned and I will
go up the steps first, and knock. If they don't let us in I'm going
to smash the door. Then you follow."

Rather excited by what was about to take place, the two chums
accompanied the chief custom agent. He rapped loudly on the door of
the house, where only darkness showed.

There was a moment of silence, and then a voice which Tom and Ned
recognized as that of Andy Foger, asked:

"What do you want?"

"We want to come in," replied Mr. Whitford.

"But who are you?"

"Uncle Sam's officers, from the custom house."

Tom distinctly heard a gasp of surprise on the other side of the
portal, and then a bolt was drawn. The door was thrown back, and
there, confronting the two lads and Mr. Whitford, were Andy Foger
and his father.




CHAPTER VI

THE APPEAL TO TOM


"Well, what does this mean?" asked Mr. Foger in indignant tones, as
he faced the custom officer and Tom and Ned. "What do you mean by
coming to my house at this hour, and disturbing me? I demand an
answer!"

"And you shall have it," replied Mr. Whitford calmly. He was used to
dealing with "indignant" persons, who got very much on their dignity
when accused of smuggling. "We are here, Mr. Foger, because of
certain information we have received, and we must ask you to submit
to some questions, and allow your house to be searched."

"What! You question me? Search this house? That is an indignity to
which I will not submit!"

"You will have to, Mr. Foger. I have ample authority for what I am
doing, and I am backed by the most powerful government in the world.
I also have plenty of help with me."

Mr. Whitford blew his whistle, and at once his several deputies came
running up.

"You see I am well prepared to meet force with force, Mr. Foger,"
said the chief agent, calmly.

"Force! What do you mean, sir?"

"I mean that I have certain information against you. There has been
smuggling going on from Canada into the United States."

"Canada? What have I to do with Canada?"

"You don't live far from there," said Mr. Whitford significantly.
"Airships have been used. Your son has one, but I don't believe that
figured in the game. But two friends of mine saw something to-night
that made me decide on this raid. Tom and Ned, tell Mr. Foger what
you saw."

The agent stepped back, so that the two lads could be seen. There
was another gasp of surprise, this time from Andy Foger, who had
remained in the background.

"Tom Swift!" gasped the bully.

"Tell them what you saw. Tom," went on the agent, and Tom and Ned by
turns, relayed the incident of the wagon load of goods driving away
from the gardener's house.

"This, with what has gone before, made us suspicious," said Mr.
Whitford. "So we decided on a raid. If you are not willing to let us
in peaceably, we will come by force."

"By all means come in!" was the unexpected reply of Mr. Foger, as he
stepped back, and opened wider the door. "Andy, these are some
friends of yours, are they not?"

"Friends? I guess not!" exclaimed Andy with a sneer. "I won't even
speak to them."

"Not much lost," commented Tom with a laugh.

"Search the house!" ordered Mr. Whitford sharply.

"I'll show you around," offered Mr. Foger.

"We can find our way," was the curt rejoinder of the chief agent.

"The place is deserted," went on Mr. Foger. "My son and I are just
living here until certain repairs are made, when I am going to make
another effort to sell it."

"Yes, we knew it was being repaired, and that your son was staying
here," said Mr. Whitford, "But we did not expect to see you."

"I--er--that is--I came on unexpectedly," said Mr. Foger. "You may
look about all you wish. You will find nothing wrong here."

And they did not, strange to say. There was considerable litter in
many of the rooms, and in one was Andy's airship in parts. Clearly
work was being done on that, and Mr. Dillon's story was confirmed,
for tools, with his initials burned in the handles, were lying
about.

The custom men, with Tom and Ned, went all over the house. Andy
scowled blackly at our hero, but said nothing. Mr. Foger seemed
anxious to show everything, and let the men go where they would.
Finally a tour of the house had been completed, and nothing of a
suspicious nature was found.

"I guess we'll just take a look at the roof, and see that airship
platform your son is going to use," said Mr. Whitford, in rather
disappointed tones, when he had found nothing.

"It isn't started yet," said Andy.

But they all went up through a scuttle, nevertheless, and saw where
some posts had been made fast to the roof, to provide a platform
foundation.

"I'll beat you all to pieces when I get flying," said the bully to
Tom, as they went down the scuttle again.

"I'm not in the racing game any more," replied Tom coldly. "Besides
I only race with my FRIENDS."

"Huh! Afraid of getting beat!" sneered Andy.

"Well. I guess there's nothing here," said Mr. Whitford to Mr.
Foger, as they stood together in the front room.

"No, I knew you'd find nothing, and you have had your trouble for
your pains."

"Oh, Uncle Sam doesn't mind trouble."

"And you have caused me much annoyance!" said Mr. Foger sharply.

"I'm afraid we'll have to cause you more," was the agent's comment.
"I want to have a look in the gardener's house, from where Tom Swift
saw the load going away."

"There is nothing there!" declared Mr. Foger quickly. "That is,
nothing but some old furniture. I sold a lot of it, and I suppose
the man who bought it came for it to-night."

"We'll take a look," repeated the agent, "I am very fond of old
furniture."

"Very well," responded the bully's father, as he eyed Tom and Ned
blackly.

He led the way out of the house, and soon they stood before the
small cottage. It was dark, and when Mr. Foger unlocked the door he
turned on the gas, and lighted it.

"I left the gas on until all the furniture should be taken out," he
explained. "But you will find nothing here."

It needed but a glance about the place to show that only some odds
and ends of furniture was all that it contained.

"Where does this door lead to," asked Mr. Whitford, when he had made
a tour of the place.

"Nowhere. Oh, that is only down into the cellar." was the reply.
"There is nothing there."

"We can't take anything for granted," went on the agent with a
smile. "I'll take a look down there."

He descended with some of his men. Tom and Ned remained in the
kitchen of the cottage, while Andy and his father conversed in low
tones, occasionally casting glances at our heroes. Once Tom thought
Mr. Foger looked apprehensively toward the door, through which the
custom men had descended. He also appeared to be anxiously
listening.

But when Mr. Whitford came back, with a disappointed look on his
face, and said there was nothing to be found, Mr. Foger smiled:

"What did I tell you?" he asked triumphantly.

"Never mind," was the retort of Uncle Sam's man. "We are not through
with Shopton yet."

"I'm sorry we gave you so much trouble on a false clew," said Tom,
as he and Ned left the Foger premises with Mr. Whitford, the other
deputies following.

"That's all right, Tom. We have to follow many false clews. I'm much
obliged to you. Either we were on the wrong track, or the Fogers are
more clever than I gave them credit for. But I am not done yet. I
have something to propose to you. It has come to me in the last few
minutes. I saw you in your airship once, and I know you know how to
manage such craft. Now there is no question in my mind but what the
smugglers are using airships. Tom, will you undertake a mission for
Uncle Sam?"

"What do you mean?"

"I mean will you go to the border, in your airship, and try to catch
the smugglers? I can promise you a big reward, and much fame if we
catch them. An airship is just what is needed. You are the one to do
it. Will you?"




CHAPTER VII

A SEARCHLIGHT IS NEEDED


For a few moments after the custom officer had made his appeal, Tom
Swift did not reply. His thoughts were busy with many things.
Somehow, it seemed of late, there had been many demands on him,
demands that had been hard and trying.

In the past he had not hesitated, but in those cases friendship, as
well as a desire for adventures, had urged him. Now he thought he
had had his fill of adventures.

"Well?" asked Mr. Whitford, gently. "What's your answer, Tom? Don't
you think this is a sort of duty-call to you?"

"A duty-call?" repeated the young inventor.

"Yes. Of course I realize that it isn't like a soldier's call to
battle, but Uncle Sam needs you just the same. When there is a war
the soldiers are called on to repel an enemy. Now the smugglers are
just as much an enemy of the United States, in a certain way, as an
armed invader would be."

"One strikes at the life and liberty of the people, while the
smugglers try to cheat Uncle Sam out of money that is due him. I'm
not going to enter into a discussion as to the right of the
government to impose duties. People have their own opinion as to
that. But, as long as the law says certain duties are to be
collected, it is the duty of every citizen, not only to pay those
dues, but to help collect them. That's what I'm asking you to do,
Tom."

"I don't want to get prosy, or deliver a lecture on the work of the
custom house, Tom, but, honestly, I think it is a duty you owe to
your country to help catch these smugglers. I admit I'm at the end
of my rope. This last clew has failed. The Fogers seem to be
innocent of wrong doing. We need your help, Tom."

"But I don't see how I can help you."

"Of course you can! You're an expert with airships. The smugglers
are using airships, of that I'm sure. You tell me you have just
perfected a noiseless aircraft. That will be just the thing. You can
hover on the border, near the line dividing New York State from
Canada, or near the St. Lawrence, which is the natural division for
a certain distance, and when you see an airship coming along you can
slip up in your noiseless one, overhaul it, and make them submit to
a search."

"But I won't have any authority to do that," objected Tom, who
really did not care for the commission.

"Oh, I'll see that you get the proper authority all right," said Mr.
Whitford significantly. "I made you a temporary deputy to-night, but
if you'll undertake this work, to catch the smugglers in their
airships, you will be made a regular custom official."

"Yes, but supposing I can't catch them?" interposed our hero. "They
may have very fast airships, and--"

"I guess you'll catch 'em all right!" put in Ned, who was at his
chum's side as they walked along a quiet Shopton street in the
darkness. "There's not an aeroplane going that can beat yours, Tom."

"Well, perhaps I COULD get them," admitted the young inventor. "But--"

"Then you'll undertake this work for Uncle Sam?" interrupted Mr.
Whitford eagerly. "Come, Tom, I know you will."

"I'm not so sure of that," spoke Tom. "It isn't going to be as easy
as you think. There are many difficulties in the way. In the first
place the smuggling may be done over such a wide area that it would
need a whole fleet of airships to capture even one of the others,
for they might choose a most unfrequented place to cross the
border."

"Oh, we would be in communication with you," said the agent. "We can
come pretty near telling where the contraband goods will be shipped
from, but the trouble is, after we get our tips, we can't get to the
place before they have flown away. But with your airship, you could
catch them, after we sent you, say a wireless message, about where
to look for them. So that's no objection. You have a wireless outfit
on your airships, haven't you, Tom?"

"Yes, that part is all right."

"Then you can't have any more objections, Tom."

"Well, there are some. For instance you say most of this smuggling
is done at night."

"Practically all of it, yes."

"Well, it isn't going to be easy to pick out a contraband airship in
the dark, and chase it. But I'll tell you what I'll do, Mr.
Whitford, I feel as if I had sort of 'fallen down' on this clew
business, as the newspaper men say, and I owe it to you to make good
in some way."

"That's what I want--not that I think you haven't done all you
could," interposed the agent.

"Well, if I can figure out some way, by which I think I can come
anywhere near catching these smugglers, I'll undertake the work!"
exclaimed Tom. "I'll do it as a duty to Uncle Sam, and I don't want
any reward except my expenses. It's going to cost considerable, but--"

"Don't mind the expense!" interrupted Mr. Whitford. "Uncle Sam will
stand that. Why, the government is losing thousands of dollars every
week. It's a big leak, and must be stopped, and you're the one to
stop it, Tom."

"Well, I'll try. I'll see you in a couple of days, and let you know
if I have formed any plan. Now come on, Ned. I'm tired and want to
get to bed."

"So do I," added the agent. "I'll call on you day after to-morrow,
Tom, and I expect you to get right on the job," he added with a
laugh.

"Have you any idea what you are going to do, Tom?" asked his chum,
as they turned toward their houses.

"Not exactly. If I go I'll use my noiseless airship. That will come
in handy. But this night business rather stumps me. I don't quite
see my way to get around that. Of course I could use an ordinary
searchlight, but that doesn't give a bright enough beam, or carry
far enough. It's going to be quite a problem and I've got to think
it over."

"Queer about the Fogers; wasn't it, Tom?"

"Yes, I didn't think they were going to let us in."

"There's something going on there, in spite of the fact that they
were willing for an inspection to be made," went on Ned.

"I agree with you. I thought it was funny the way Mr. Foger acted
about not wanting the men to go down in the cellar."

"So did I, and yet when they got down there they didn't find
anything."

"That's so. Well, maybe we're on the wrong track, after all. But I'm
going to keep my eyes open. I don't see what Andy wants with an
airship platform on the roof of his house. The ground is good enough
to start from and land on."

"I should think so, too. But then Andy always did like to show off,
and do things different from anybody else. Maybe it's that way now."

"Perhaps," agreed Tom. "Well, here's your house, Ned. Come over in
the morning," and, with a good-night, our hero left his chum,
proceeding on toward his own home.

"Why, Koku, haven't you gone to bed yet?" asked the young inventor,
as, mounting the side steps, he saw his giant servant sitting there
on a bench he had made especially for his own use, as ordinary
chairs were not substantial enough. "What is the matter?"

"Nothing happen YET," spoke Koku significantly, "but maybe he come
pretty soon, and then I get him."

"Get who, Koku?" asked Tom, with quick suspicion.

"I do not know, but Eradicate say he hear someone sneaking around
his chicken coop, and I think maybe it be same man who was here once
before."

"Oh, you mean the rivals, who were trying to get my moving picture
camera?"

"That's what!" exclaimed Koku.

"Hum!" mused Tom. "I must be on the look-out. I'll tell you what
I'll do, Koku. I'll set my automatic camera to take the moving
pictures of any one who tries to get in my shop, or in the chicken
coop. I'll also set the burglar alarm. But you may also stay on the
watch, and if anything happens--"

"If anything happens, I will un-happen him!" exclaimed the giant,
brandishing a big club he had beside him.

"All right," laughed Tom. "I'm sleepy, and I'm going to bed, but
I'll set the automatic camera, and fix it with fuse flashlights, so
they will go off if the locks are even touched."

This Tom did, fixing up the wizard camera, which I have told you
about in the book bearing that title. It would take moving pictures
automatically, once Tom had set the mechanism to unreel the films
back of the shutter and lens. The lights would instantly flash, when
the electrical connections on the door locks were tampered with, and
the pictures would be taken.

Then Tom set the burglar alarm, and, before going to bed he focused
a searchlight, from one of his airships, on the shed and chicken
coop, fastening it outside his room window.

"There!" he exclaimed, as he got ready to turn in, not having
awakened the rest of the household, "when the burglar alarm goes
off, if it does, it will also start the searchlight, and I'll get a
view of who the chicken thief is. I'll also get some pictures."

Then, thinking over the events of the evening, and wondering if he
would succeed in his fight with the smugglers, providing he
undertook it, Tom fell asleep.

It must have been some time after midnight that he was awakened by
the violent ringing of a bell at his ear. At first he thought it was
the call to breakfast, and he leaped from bed crying out:

"Yes, Mrs. Baggert, I'm coming!"

A moment later he realized what it was.

"The burglar alarm!" he cried. "Koku, are you there? Someone is
trying to get into the chicken coop!" for a glance at the automatic
indicator, in connection with the alarm, had shown Tom that the
henhouse, and not his shop, had been the object of attack.

"I here!" cried Koku, "I got him!"

A series of startled cries bore eloquent testimony to this.

"I'm coming!" cried Tom. And then he saw a wonderful sight. The
whole garden, his shop, the henhouse and all the surrounding
territory was lighted up with a radiance almost like daylight. The
beams of illumination came from the searchlight Tom had fixed
outside his window, but never before had the lantern given such a
glow.

"That's wonderful!" cried Tom, as he ran to examine it. "What has
happened? I never had such a powerful beam before. There must be
something that I have stumbled on by accident. Say, that is a light
all right! Why it goes for miles and miles, and I never projected a
beam as far as this before."

As Tom looked into a circle of violet-colored glass set in the side
of the small searchlight, to see what had caused the extraordinary
glow, he could observe nothing out of the ordinary. The violet glass
was to protect the eyes from the glare.

"It must be that, by accident, I made some new connection at the
dynamo," murmured Tom.

"Hi! Lemme go! Lemme go, Massa giant! I ain't done nuffin'!" yelled
a voice.

"I got you!" cried Koku.

"It's an ordinary chicken thief this time I guess," said Tom. "But
this light--this great searchlight--"

Then a sudden thought came to him.

"By Jove!" he cried. "If I can find out the secret of how I happened
to project such a beam, it will be the very thing to focus on the
smugglers from my noiseless airship! That's what I need--a
searchlight such as never before has been made--a terrifically
powerful one. And I've got it, if I can only find out just how it
happened. I've got to look before the current dies out."

Leaving the brilliant beams on in full blast, Tom ran down the
stairs to get to his shop, from which the electrical power came.




CHAPTER VIII

TOM'S NEWEST INVENTION


"I got him, Mr. Tom!"

"Oh, please, good Massa Swift! Make him leggo me! He suah am
squeezin' de liber outer me!"

"Shall I conflict the club upon him, Mr. Tom?"

It was Koku who asked this last question, as Tom came running toward
the giant. In the strange glare from the searchlight, the young
inventor saw his big servant holding tightly to a rather small,
colored man, while the camera, which was focused full on them, was
clicking away at a great rate, taking picture after picture on the
roll of films.

"No, don't INFLICT nor CONFLICT the club on him, Koku," advised Tom.
"Who is he?"

"I don't know, Mr. Tom. I was in hiding, in the darkness, waiting
for him to come back. He had been here once before in the evening,
Eradicate says. Well, he came while I was waiting and I detained
him. Then the lights went up. They are very bright lights, Mr. Tom."

"Yes, brighter than I expected they would be. I must look and see
what causes it. So you detained him, did you, Koku?"

"Yes, and what exposition shall I make of him?"

"What DISPOSITION?" corrected Tom, with a laugh. "Well, did he get
any chickens, Koku?"

"Oh, no, I was too tight for him."

"Oh, you mean too fast, or quick. Well, if he didn't get any, I
guess you might let him go. I have too much to attend to, to bother
with him."

"Oh, bress yo' for dat, Massa Tom!" cried the negro, whom Tom
recognized as a worthless character about the town. "I didn't go fo'
to do nuffin', Massa Tom. I were jest goin' t' look in de coop, t'
count an' see how many fowls mah friend Eradicate had, an' den--"

"Yes, and then I tie you!" broke in Koku.

"You collared him, I guess you mean to say," spoke Tom with a laugh.
"Well, I guess, Sam," speaking to the negro, "if YOU had counted
Rad's chickens HE couldn't have counted as many in the morning. But
be off, and don't come around again, or you might have to count the
bars in a jail cell for a change."

"Bress yo' honey. I won't neber come back."

"Shall release him?" asked Koku doubtfully.

"Yes," said Tom.

"And not reflict the club on him?"

The giant raised his club longingly.

"Oh, Massa Tom, protect me!" cried Sam.

"No, don't even REFLECT the club on him," advised the young inventor
with a laugh. "He hasn't done any harm, and he may have been the
means of a great discovery. Remember Sam," Tom went on sternly, "I
have your picture, as you were trying to break into the coop, and if
you come around again, I'll use it as evidence against you."

"Oh, I won't come. Not as long as dat giant am heah, anyhow," said
the negro earnestly. "Besides, I were only goin' t' count
Eradicate's chickens, t' see ef he had as many as I got."

"All right," responded Tom. "Now, Koku, you may escort him off the
premises, and be on the lookout the rest of the night, off and on.
Where's Rad?"

"He has what he says is 'de misery' in his back so that he had to go
to bed," explained the giant, to account for the faithful colored
man not having responded to the alarm.

"All right, get rid of Sam, and then come back."

As Tom turned to go in his shop he saw his aged father coming slowly
toward him. Mr. Swift had hastily dressed.

"What is the matter, Tom?" he asked. "Has anything happened? I heard
your alarm go off, and I came as quickly as I could."

"Nothing much has happened, father, excepting a chicken thief. But
something great may come of it. Do you notice that searchlight, and
how powerful it is?"

"I do, Tom. I never knew you had one as big as that."

"Neither did I, and I haven't, really. That's one of my smallest
ones, but something seems to have happened to it to make it throw
out a beam like that. I'm just going to look. Come on in the shop."

The two inventors, young and old, entered, and Tom quickly crossed
to where the wires from the automatic dynamo, extended to the
searchlight outside the window of his room. He made a quick
inspection.

"Look, father!" he cried. "The alternating current from the
automatic dynamo has become crossed with direct current from the big
storage battery in a funny way. It must have been by accident, for
never in the world would I think of connecting up in that fashion. I
would have said it would have made a short circuit at once."

"But it hasn't. On the contrary, it has given a current of peculiar
strength and intensity--a current that would seem to be made
especially for searchlights. Dad, I'm on the edge of a big
discovery."

"I believe you, Tom," said his father. "That certainly is a queer
way for wires to be connected. How do you account for it?"

"I can't. That is unless some one meddled with the connections after
I made them. That must be it. I'll ask Rad and Koku." Just then the
giant came in. "Koku, did you touch the wires?" asked Tom.

"Well, Mr. Tom, I didn't mean to. I accidentally pulled one out a
while ago, when I was waiting for the thief to come, but I put it
right back again. I hope I did no damage."

"No, on the contrary, you did a fine thing, Koku. I never would have
dared make such connections myself, but you, not knowing any better,
did just the right thing to make an almost perfect searchlight
current. It is wonderful! Probably for any other purpose such a
current would be useless, but it is just the thing for a great
light."

"And why do you need such a powerful light, Tom?" asked Mr. Swift.
"Why, it is of extraordinary brilliancy, and it goes for several
miles. Look how plainly you can pick out the trees on Nob's Hill,"
and he pointed to an elevation some distance away from the Swift
homestead, across the woods and meadows.

"I believe I could see a bird perched there, if there was one!"
exclaimed Tom enthusiastically. "That certainly is a wonderful
light. With larger carbons, better parobolic mirrors, a different
resistance box, better connections, and a more powerful primary
current there is no reason why I could not get a light that would
make objects more plainly visible than in the daytime, even in the
darkest night, and at a great distance."

"But what would be the object of such a light, Tom?"

"To play upon the smugglers, dad, and catch them as they come over
the border in the airship."

"Smugglers, Tom! You don't mean to tell me you are going away again,
and after smugglers?"

"Well, dad, I've had an offer, and I think I'll take it. There's no
money in it, but I think it is my duty to do my best for Uncle Sam.
The one thing that bothered me was how to get a view of the airship
at night. This searchlight has solved the problem--that is if I can
make a permanent invention of this accident, and I think I can."

"Oh, Tom, I hate to think of you going away from home again," said
his father a bit sadly.

"Don't worry, father. I'm not going far this time. Only to the
Canadian border, and that's only a few hundred miles. But I want to
see if I can cut the current off, and turn it on again. When a thing
happens by accident you never know whether you can get just exactly
the same conditions again."

Tom shut off the current from the dynamo, and the powerful beam of
light died out. Then he turned it on once more, and it glowed as
brightly as before. He did this several times, and each time it was
a success.

"Hurrah!" cried Tom. "To-morrow I'll start on my latest invention, a
great searchlight!"




CHAPTER IX

"BEWARE OF THE COMET!"


"Well, Tom, what are you up to now?"

Ned Newton peered in the window of the shop at his chum, who was
busy over a bench.

"This is my latest invention, Ned. Come on in."

"Looks as though you were going to give a magic lantern show. Or is
it for some new kinds of moving pictures? Say, do you remember the
time we gave a show in the barn, and charged a nickel to come in?
You were the clown, and--"

"I was not! You were the clown. I was part of the elephant. The
front end, I think."

"Oh. so you were. I'm thinking of another one. But what are you up
to now? Is it a big magic lantern?"

Ned came over toward the bench, in front of which Tom stood, fitting
together sheets of heavy brass in the form of a big square box. In
one side there was a circular opening, and there were various wheels
and levers on the different sides and on top. The interior contained
parobolic curved mirrors.

"It's a SORT of a lantern, and I hope it's going to do some MAGIC
work," explained Tom with a smile. "But it isn't the kind of magic
lantern you mean. It won't throw pictures on a screen, but it may
show some surprising pictures to us--that is if you come along, and
I think you will."

"Talking riddles; eh?" laughed Ned. "What's the answer?"

"Smugglers."

"I thought you were talking about a lantern."

"So I am, and it's the lantern that's going to show up the
smugglers, so you can call it a smuggler's magic lantern if you
like."

"Then you're going after them?"

This conversation took place several days after the raid on the
Foger house, and after Tom's accidental discovery of how to make a
new kind of searchlight. In the meantime he had not seen Ned, who
had been away on a visit.

"Yes, I've made up my mind to help Uncle Sam," spoke Tom, "and this
is one of the things I'll need in my work. It's going to be the most
powerful searchlight ever made--that is, I never heard of any
portable electric lights that will beat it."

"What do you mean, Tom?"

"I mean that I'm inventing a new kind of searchlight, Ned. One that
I can carry with me on my new noiseless airship, and one that will
give a beam of light that will be visible for several miles, and
which will make objects in its focus as plain as if viewed by
daylight."

"And it's to show up the smugglers?"

"That's what. That is it will if we can get on the track of them."

"But what did you mean when you said it would be the most powerful
portable light ever made."

"Just what I said. I've got to carry this searchlight on an airship
with me, and, in consequence, it can't be very heavy. Of course
there are stationary searchlights, such lights as are in
lighthouses, that could beat mine all to pieces for candle power,
and for long distance visibility. But they are the only ones."

"That's the way to do things, Tom! Say, I'm going with you all right
after those smugglers. But where are some of those powerful
stationary searchlights you speak of?"

"Oh, there are lots of them. One was in the Eiffel Tower, during the
Paris Exposition. I didn't see that, but I have read about it.
Another is in one of the twin lighthouses at the Highlands, on the
Atlantic coast of New Jersey, just above Asbury Park. That light is
of ninety-five million candle power, and the lighthouse keeper there
told me it was visible, on a clear night, as far as the New Haven,
Connecticut, lighthouse, a distance of fifty miles."

"Fifty miles! That's some light!" gasped Ned.

"Well, you must remember that the Highlands light is up on a very
high hill, and the tower is also high, so there is quite an
elevation, and then think of ninety-five million candle power--think
of it!"

"I can't!" cried Ned. "It gives me a head-ache."

"Well, of course I'm not going to try to beat that," went on Tom
with a laugh, "but I am going to have a very powerful light." And he
then related how he had accidently discovered a new way to connect
the wires, so as to get, from a dynamo and a storage battery a much
stronger, and different, current than usual.

"I'm making the searchlight now," Tom continued, "and soon I'll be
ready to put in the lens, and the carbons."

"And then what?"

"Then I'm going to attach it to my noiseless airship, and we'll have
a night flight. It may work, and it may not. If it does, I think
we'll have some astonishing results."

"I think we will, Tom. Can I do anything to help you?"

"Yes, file some of the rough edges off these sheets of brass, if you
will. There's an old pair of gloves to put on to protect your hands,
otherwise you'll be almost sure to cut 'em, when the file slips.
That brass is extra hard."

The two boys were soon working away, and were busy over the big
lantern when Mr. Whitford came along. Koku was, as usual, on guard
at the outer door of the shop, but he knew the custom officer, and
at once admitted him.

"Well, Tom, how you coming on?" he asked.

"Pretty good. I think I've got just what I want. A powerful light
for night work."

"That's good. You'll need it. They've got so they only smuggle the
goods over in the night now. How soon do you think you'll be able to
get on the border for Uncle Sam?"

"Why, is there any great rush?" asked Tom, as he noticed a look of
annoyance pass over the agent's face.

"Yes, the smugglers have been hitting us pretty hard lately. My
superiors are after me to do something, but I can't seem to do it.
My men are working hard, but we can't catch the rascals."

"You see, Tom, they've stopped, temporarily, bringing goods over the
St. Lawrence. They're working now in the neighborhood of Huntington,
Canada, and the dividing line between the British possessions and
New York State, runs along solid ground there. It's a wild and
desolate part of country, too, and I haven't many men up there."

"Don't the Canadian custom officers help?" asked Ned.

"Well, they haven't been of any aid to us so far," was the answer.
"No doubt they are trying, but it's hard to get an airship at night
when you're on the ground, and can't even see it."

"How did they come to use airships?" asked Tom.

"Well, it was because we were too sharp after them when they tried
to run things across the line afoot, or by wagons," replied the
agent. "You must know that in every principal city, at or near the
border line, there is a custom house. Goods brought from Canada to
the United States must pass through there and pay a duty."

"Of course if lawless people try to evade the duty they don't go
near the custom house. But there are inspectors stationed at the
principal roads leading from the Dominion into Uncle Sam's
territory, and they are always on the lookout. They patrol the line,
sometimes through a dense wilderness, and again over a desolate
plain, always on the watch. If they see persons crossing the line
they stop them and examine what they have. If there is nothing
dutiable they are allowed to pass. If they have goods on which there
is a tax, they either have to pay or surrender the goods."

"But don't the smugglers slip over in spite of all the precautions?"
asked Ned. "Say at some lonely ravine, or stretch of woods?"

"I suppose they do, occasionally," replied Mr. Whitford. "Yet the
fact that they never can tell when one of the inspectors or deputies
is coming along, acts as a stop. You see the border line is divided
up into stretches of different lengths. A certain man, or men, are
held responsible for each division. They must see that no smugglers
pass. That makes them on the alert."

"Why, take it out west, I have a friend who told me that he often
travels hundreds of miles on horseback, with pack ponies carrying
his camping outfit, patroling the border on the lookout for
smugglers."

"In fact Uncle Sam has made it so hard for the ordinary smuggler to
do business on foot or by wagon, that these fellows have taken to
airships. And it is practically impossible for an inspector
patroling the border to be on the lookout for the craft of the air.
Even if they saw them, what could they do? It would be out of the
question to stop them. That's why we need some one with a proper
machine who can chase after them, who can sail through the air, and
give them a fight in the clouds if they have to."

"Our custom houses on the ground, and our inspectors on horse back,
traveling along the border, can't meet the issue. We're depending on
you, Tom Swift, and I hope you don't disappoint us."

"Well," spoke Tom, when Mr. Whitford had finished. "I'll do my best
for you. It won't take very long to complete my searchlight, and
then I'll give it a trial. My airship is ready for service, and once
I find we're all right I'll start for the border."

"Good! And I hope you'll catch the rascals!" fervently exclaimed the
custom official. "Well, Tom, I'm leaving it all to you. Here are some
reports from my deputies. I'll leave them with you, and you can look
them over, and map out a campaign. When you are ready to start I'll
see you again, and give you any last news I have. I'll also arrange so
that you can communicate with me, or some of my men."

"Have you given up all suspicion of the Fogers?" asked the young
inventor.

"Yes. But I still think Shopton is somehow involved in the custom
violations. I'm going to put one of my best men on the ground here,
and go to the border myself."

"Well, I'll be ready to start in a few days," said Tom, as the
government agent departed.

For the next week our hero and his chum were busy completing work on
the great searchlight, and in attaching it to the airship. Koku
helped them, but little of the plans, or of the use to which the big
lantern was to be put, were made known to him, for Koku liked to
talk, and Tom did not want his project to become known.

"Well, we'll give her a trial to-night," said Tom one afternoon,
following a day of hard work. "We'll go up, and flash the light
down."

"Who's going?"

"Just us two. You can manage the ship, and I'll look after the
light."

So it was arranged, and after supper Tom and his chum, having told
Mr. Swift were they were going, slipped out to the airship shed, and
soon were ready to make an ascent. The big lantern was fastened to a
shaft that extended above the main cabin. The shaft was hollow and
through it came the wires that carried the current. Tom, from the
cabin below, could move the lantern in any direction, and focus it
on any spot he pleased. By means of a toggle joint, combined with
what are known as "lazy-tongs," the lantern could be projected over
the side of the aircraft and be made to gleam on the earth, directly
below the ship.

For his new enterprise Tom used the Falcon in which he had gone to
Siberia after the platinum. The new noiseless motor had been
installed in this craft.

"All ready, Ned?" asked Tom after an inspection of the searchlight.

"All ready, as far as I'm concerned, Tom."

"Then let her go!"

Like a bird of the night, the great aeroplane shot into the air,
and, with scarcely a sound that could be heard ten feet away, she
moved forward at great speed.

"What are you going to do first?" asked Ned.

"Fly around a bit, and then come back over my house. I'm going to
try the lantern on that first, and see what I can make out from a
couple of miles up in the air."

Up and up went the Falcon, silently and powerfully, until the
barograph registered nearly fourteen thousand feet.

"This is high enough." spoke Tom.

He shifted a lever that brought the searchlight into focus on
Shopton, which lay below them. Then, turning on the current, a
powerful beam of light gleamed out amid the blackness.

"Jove! That's great!" cried Ned. "It's like a shaft of daylight!"

"That's what I intended it to be!" cried Tom in delight.

With another shifting of the lever he brought the light around so
that it began to pick up different buildings in the town.

"There's the church!" cried Ned. "It's as plain as day, in that
gleam."

"And there's the railroad depot," added Tom.

"And Andy Foger's house!"

"Yes, and there's my house!" exclaimed Tom a moment later, as the
beam rested on his residence and shops. "Say, it's plainer than I
thought it would be. Hold me here a minute, Ned."

Ned shut off the power from the propellers, and the airship was
stationary. Tom took a pair of binoculars, and looked through them
at his home in the focus of light.

"I can count the bricks in the chimney!" he cried in eagerness at
the success of his great searchlight. "It's even better than I
thought it was! Let's go down, Ned."

Slowly the airship sank. Tom played his light all about, picking up
building after building, and one familiar spot after another.
Finally he brought the beam on his own residence again, when not far
above it.

Suddenly there arose a weird cry. Tom and Ned knew at once that it
was Eradicate.

"A comet! A comet!" yelled the colored man. "De end ob de world am
comin'! Run, chillens, run! Beware ob de comet!"

"Eradicate's afraid!" cried Tom with a laugh.

"Oh good mistah comet! Doan't take me!" went on the colored man. "I
ain't neber done nuffin', an' mah mule Boomerang ain't needer. But
ef yo' has t' take somebody, take Boomerang!"

"Keep quiet, Rad! It's all right!" cried Tom. But the colored man
continued to shout in fear.

Then, as the two boys looked on, and as the airship came nearer to
the earth, Ned, who was looking down amid the great illumination,
called to Tom:

"Look at Koku!"

Tom glanced over, and saw his giant servant, with fear depicted on
his face, running away as fast as he could. Evidently Eradicate's
warning had frightened him.

"Say, he can run!" cried Ned. "Look at him leg it!"

"Yes, and he may run away, never to come back," exclaimed Tom. "I
don't want to lose him, he's too valuable. I know what happened once
when he got frightened. He was away for a week before I could locate
him, and he hid in the swamp. I'm not going to have that happen
again."

"What are you going to do?"

"I'm going to chase after him in the airship. It will be a good test
for chasing the smugglers. Put me after him, Ned, and I'll play the
searchlight on him so we can't lose him!"




CHAPTER X

OFF FOR THE BORDER


"There he goes, Tom!"

"Yes, I see him!"

"Look at him run!"

"No wonder. Consider his long legs, Ned. Put on a little more speed,
and keep a little lower down. It's clear of trees right here."

"There he goes into that clump of bushes."

"I see him. He'll soon come out," and Tom flashed the big light on
the fleeing giant to whom fear seemed to lend more than wings.

But even a giant, long legged though he be, and powerful, cannot
compete with a modern airship--certainly not such a one as Tom Swift
had.

"We're almost up to him, Tom!" cried Ned a little later.

"Yes! I'm keeping track of him. Oh, why doesn't he know enough to
stop? Koku! Koku!" called Tom. "It's all right! I'm in the airship!
This is a searchlight, not a comet. Wait for us!"

They could see the giant glance back over his shoulder at them, and,
when he saw how close the gleaming light was he made a desperate
spurt. But it was about his last, for he was a heavy man, and did
not have any too good wind.

"We'll have him in another minute," predicted Tom. "Give me a bit
more speed, Ned."

The lad who was managing the Falcon swung the accelerating lever
over another notch, and the craft surged ahead. Then Ned executed a
neat trick. Swinging the craft around in a half circle, he suddenly
opened the power full, and so got ahead of Koku. The next minute,
sliding down to earth, Tom and Ned came to a halt, awaiting the
oncoming of Koku, who, finding the glaring light full in his face,
came to a halt.

"Why, Koku, what's the matter?" asked Tom kindly, as he turned off
the powerful beams, and switched on some ordinary incandescents,
that were on the outside of the craft. They made an illumination by
which the giant could make out his master and the latter's chum.
"Why did you run, Koku?" asked Tom.

"Eradicate say to," was the simple answer. "He say comet come to eat
up earth. Koku no want to be eaten."

"Eradicate is a big baby!" exclaimed Tom. "See, there is no danger.
It is only my new searchlight," and once more the young inventor
switched it on. Koku jumped back, but when he saw that nothing
happened he did not run.

"It's harmless," said Tom, and briefly he explained how the big
lantern worked.

Koku was reassured now, and consented to enter the airship. He was
rather tired from his run, and was glad to sit down.

"Where to now; back home?" asked Ned, as they made ready to start.

"No, I was thinking of going over to Mr. Damon's house. I'd like him
to see my searchlight. And I want to find out if he's going with us
on the trip to the border."

"Of course he will!" predicted Ned. "He hasn't missed a trip with
you in a long while. He'll go if his wife will let him," and both boys
laughed, for Mr. Damon's wife was nearly always willing to let him
do as he liked, though the odd man had an idea that she was
violently opposed to his trips.

Once more the Falcon went aloft, and again the searchlight played
about. It brought out with startling distinctness the details of the
towns and villages over which they passed, and distant landmarks
were also made plainly visible.

"We'll be there in a few minutes now," said Tom, as he flashed the
light on a long slant toward the town of Waterford, where Mr. Damon
lived.

"I can see his house," spoke Ned a moment later. He changed the
course of the craft, to bring it to a stop in the yard of the
eccentric man, and, shortly afterward, they landed. Tom who had shut
off the searchlight for a minute, turned it on again, and the house
and grounds of Mr. Damon were enveloped in a wonderful glow.

"That will bring him out," predicted Tom.

A moment later they heard his voice.

"Bless my astronomy!" cried Mr. Damon. "There's a meteor fallen in
our yard. Come out, wife--everybody--call the servants. It's a
chance of a lifetime to see one, and they're valuable, too! Bless my
star dust! I must tell Tom Swift of this!"

Out into the glare of the great searchlight ran Mr. Damon, followed
by his wife and several of the servants.

"There it is!" cried the odd man. "There's the meteor!"

"First we're a comet and then we're a meteor," said Ned with a
laugh.

"Oh. I hope it doesn't bury itself in the earth before I can get Tom
Swift here!" went on Mr. Damon, capering about. "Bless my telephone
book. I must call him up right away!"

"I'm here now, Mr. Damon!" shouted Tom, as he alighted from the
airship. "That's my new searchlight you're looking at."

"Bless my--" began Mr. Damon, but he couldn't think of nothing
strong enough for a moment, until he blurted out "dynamite
cartridge! Bless my dynamite cartridge! Tom Swift! His searchlight!
Bless my nitro-glycerine!"

Then Tom shut off the glare, and, as Mr. Damon and his wife came
aboard he showed them how the light worked. He only used a part of
the current, as he knew if he put on the full glare toward Mr.
Damon's house, neighbors might think it was on fire.

"Well, that's certainly wonderful," said Mrs. Damon. "In fact this
is a wonderful ship."

"Can't you take Mrs. Damon about, and show her how it works," said
Mr. Damon suddenly. "Show her the ship."

"I will," volunteered Tom.

"No, let Ned," said the eccentric man. "I--er--I want to speak to
you, Tom."

Mrs. Damon, with a queer glance at her husband, accompanied Ned to
the motor room. As soon as she was out of hearing the odd gentleman
came over and whispered to the young inventor.

"I say, Tom, what's up?"

"Smugglers. You know. I told you about 'em. I'm going after 'em with
my big searchlight."

"Bless my card case! So you did. But, I say, Tom, I--I want to go!"

"I supposed you would. Well, you're welcome, of course. We leave in
a few days. It isn't a very long trip this time, but there may be
plenty of excitement. Then I'll book you for a passage, and--"

"Hush! Not another word! Here she comes, Tom. My wife! Don't breathe
a syllable of it to her. She'll never let me go." Then, for the
benefit of Mrs. Damon, who came back into the main cabin with Ned at
that moment, her husband added in loud tones:

"Yes, Tom it certainly is a wonderful invention. I congratulate
you," and, at the same time he winked rapidly at our hero. Tom
winked in return.

"Well, I guess we'll start back," remarked Tom, after a bit. "I'll
see you again, I suppose, Mr. Damon?"

"Oh yes, of course. I'll be over--soon," and once more he winked as
he whispered in Tom's ear: "Don't leave me behind, my boy."

"I won't," whispered the young inventor in answer.

Mrs. Damon smiled, and Tom wondered if she had discovered her
husband's innocent secret.

Tom and Ned, with Koku, made a quick trip back to Shopton, using the
great searchlight part of the way. The next day they began
preparations for the journey to the border.

It did not take long to get ready. No great amount of stores or
supplies need be taken along, as they would not be far from home,
not more than a two days' journey at any time. And they would be
near large cities, where food and gasolene could easily be obtained.

About a week later, therefore, Mr. Whitford the government agent,
having been communicated with in the meanwhile, Tom and Ned, with
Koku and Mr. Damon were ready to start.

"I wonder if Mr. Whitford is coming to see us off?" mused Tom, as he
looked to see if everything was aboard, and made sure that the
searchlight was well protected by its waterproof cover.

"He said he'd be here," spoke Ned.

"Well, it's past time now. I don't know whether to start, or to
wait."

"Wait a few minutes more," advised Ned. "His train may be a few
minutes behind time."

They waited half an hour, and Tom was on the point of starting when
a messenger boy came hurrying into the yard where the great airship
rested on its bicycle wheels.

"A telegram for you, Tom," called the lad, who was well acquainted
with our hero.

Hastily the young inventor tore open the envelope.

"Here's news!" he exclaimed,

"What is it?" asked Ned.

"It's from Mr. Whitford," answered his chum. "He says: 'Can't be
with you at start. Will meet you in Logansville. Have new clew to
the Fogers!'"

"Great Scott!" cried Ned, staring at his chum.




CHAPTER XI

ANDY'S NEW AIRSHIP


Tom Swift tossed a quarter to the messenger boy, and leaped over the
rail to the deck of his airship, making his way toward the pilot
house.

"Start the motor, Ned," he called. "Are you all ready, Mr. Damon?"

"Bless my ancient history, yes. But--"

"Are you going, Tom?" asked Ned.

"Of course. That's why we're here; isn't it? We're going to start
for the border to catch the smugglers. Give me full speed, I want
the motor to warm up."

"But that message from Mr. Whitford? He says he has a new clew to
the Fogers."

"That's all right. He may have, but he doesn't ask us to work it up.
He says he will meet us in Logansville, and he can't if we don't go
there. We're off for Logansville. Good-bye dad. I'll bring you back
a souvenir, Mrs. Baggert," he called to the housekeeper. "Sorry
you're not coming, Rad, but I'll take you next time."

"Dat's all right, Massa Tom. I doan't laik dem smugger-fellers,
nohow. Good-bye an' good luck!"

"Bless my grab bag!" gasped Mr. Damon. "You certainly do things,
Tom."

"That's the only way to get things done," replied the young
inventor. "How about you, Ned? Motor all right?"

"Sure."

"Then let her go!"

A moment later Ned had started the machinery, and Tom, in the pilot
house, had pulled the lever of the elevating rudder. Whizzing along,
but making scarcely any sound, the noiseless airship mounted upward,
and was off on her flight to capture the men who were cheating Uncle
Sam.

"What are you going to do first, when you get there, Tom?" asked
Ned, as he joined his chum in the pilot house, having set the motor
and other apparatus to working automatically. "I mean in
Logansville?"

"I don't know. I'll have to wait and see how things develop."

"That's where Mr. Foger lives, you know."

"Yes, but I doubt if he is there now. He and Andy are probably still
in the old house here, though what they are doing is beyond me to
guess."

"What do you suppose this new clew is that Mr. Whitford wired you
about?"

"Haven't any idea. If he wants us to get after it he'll let us know.
It won't take us long to get there at this rate. But I think I'll
slow down a bit, for the motor is warmed up now, and there's no use
racking it to pieces. But we're moving nicely; aren't we, Ned?"

"I should say so. This is the best all-around airship you've got."

"It is since I put the new motor in. Well, I wonder what will happen
when we get chasing around nights after the smugglers? It isn't
going to be easy work, I can tell you."

"I should say not. How you going to manage it?"

"Well, I haven't just decided. I'm going to have a talk with the
customs men, and then I'll go out night after night and cruise
around at the most likely place where they'll rush goods across the
border. As soon as I see the outlines of an airship in the darkness,
or hear the throb of her motor, I'll take after her, and--"

"Yes, and you can do it, too, Tom, for she can't hear you coming and
you can flash the big light on her and the smugglers will think the
end of the world has come. Cracky! Its going to be great, Tom! I'm
glad I came along. Maybe they'll fight, and fire at us! If they have
guns aboard, as they probably will have, we'll--"

"Bless my armor plate!" interrupted Mr. Damon. "Please don't talk
about such hair-raising things, Ned! Talk about something pleasant."

"All right," agreed Tom's chum, and then, as the airship sailed
along, high above the earth, they talked of many things.

"I think when we sight Logansville." said Tom, after a while, "that
I will come down in some quiet spot, before we reach the city."

"Don't you want to get into a crowd?" asked Ned.

"No, it isn't that. But Mr. Foger lives there you know, and, though
he may not be at home, there are probably some men who are
interested in the thing he is working at."

"You mean smuggling?"

"Well, I wouldn't say that. At the same time it may have leaked out
that we are after the smugglers in an airship and it may be that Mr.
Whitford doesn't want the Fogers to know I'm on the ground until he
has a chance to work up his clew. So I'll just go slowly, and remain
in the background for a while."

"Well, maybe it's a good plan," agreed Ned.
[Original text says "Tom". (note of etext transcriber.)]

"Of course," began Tom, "it would be--"

He was interrupted by a shout from Koku, who had gone to the motor
room, for the giant was as fascinated over machinery as a child. As
he yelled there came a grinding, pounding noise, and the big ship
seemed to waver, to quiver in the void, and to settle toward the
earth.

"Something's happened!" cried Ned, as he sprang for the place where
most of the mechanism was housed.

"Bless my toy balloon!" shouted Mr. Damon. "We're falling, Tom!"

It needed but a glance at the needle of the barograph, to show this.
Tom followed Ned at top speed, but ere either of them reached the
engine room the pounding and grinding noises ceased, the airship
began to mount upward again, and it seemed that the danger had
passed.

"What can have happened?" gasped Tom.

"Come on, we'll soon see," said Ned, and they rushed on, followed by
Mr. Damon, who was blessing things in a whisper.

The chums saw a moment later--saw a strange sight--for there was
Koku, the giant, kneeling down on the floor of the motor room, with
his big hands clasped over one of the braces of the bed-plate of the
great air pump, which cooled the cylinders of the motor. The pump
had torn partly away from its fastenings. Kneeling there, pressing
down on the bed-plate with all his might, Koku was in grave danger,
for the rod of the pump, plunging up and down, was within a fraction
of an inch of his head, and, had he moved, the big taper pin, which
held the plunger to the axle, would have struck his temple and
probably would have killed him, for the pin, which held the plunger
rigid, projected several inches from the smooth side of the rod.

"Koku, what is the matter? Why are you there?" cried Tom, for he
could see nothing wrong with the machinery now. The airship was
sailing on as before.

"Bolt break," explained the giant briefly, for he had learned some
engineering terms since he had been with Tom. "Bolt that hold pump
fast to floor crack off. Pump him begin to jump up. Make bad noise.
Koku hold him down, but pretty hard work. Better put in new bolt,
Mr. Tom."

They could see the strain that was put upon the giant in his
swelling veins and the muscles of his hands and arms, for they stood
out knotted, and in bunches. With all his great strength it was all
Koku could do to hold the pump from tearing completely loose.

"Quick, Ned!" cried Tom. "Shut off all the power! Stop the pump!
I've got to bolt it fast. Start the gas machine, Mr. Damon. You know
how to do it. It works independent of the motor. You can let go in a
minute, Koku!"

It took but a few seconds to do all this. Ned stopped the main
motor, which had the effect of causing the propellers to cease
revolving. Then the airship would have gone down but for the fact
that she was now a balloon, Mr. Damon having started the generating
machine which sent the powerful lifting gas into the big bag over
head.

"Now you can let go, Koku," said Tom, for with the stooping of the
motor the air pump ceased plunging, and there was no danger of it
tearing loose.

"Bless my court plaster!" cried Mr. Damon. "What happened, Tom?"

As the giant arose from his kneeling position the cause of the
accident could easily be seen. Two of the big bolts that held down
one end of the pump bed-plate to the floor of the airship, had
cracked off, probably through some defect, or because of the long
and constant vibration on them.

This caused a great strain on the two forward bolts, and the pump
started to tear itself loose. Had it done so there would have been
a serious accident, for there would have been a tangle in the
machinery that might never have been repairable. But Koku, who, it
seems, had been watching the pump, saw the accident as soon as it
occurred. He knew that the pump must be held down, and kept rigid,
and he took the only way open to him to accomplish this.

He pressed his big hands down over the place where the bolts had
broken off, and by main strength of muscle he held the bed-plate in
place until the power was shut off.

"Koku, my boy, you did a great thing!" cried Tom, when he realized
what had happened. "You saved all our lives, and the airship as
well."

"Koku glad," was the simple reply of the giant.

"But, bless my witch hazel!" cried Mr. Damon. "There's blood on your
hands, Koku!"

They looked at the giant's palms. They were raw and bleeding.

"How did it happen?" asked Ned.

"Where belts break off, iron rough-like," explained Koku.

"Rough! I should say it was!" cried Tom. "Why, he just pressed with
all his might on the jagged end of the belts. Koku you're a hero!"

"Hero same as giant?" asked Koku, curiously.

"No, it's a heap sight better," spoke Tom, and there was a trace of
tears in his eyes.

"Bless my vaseline!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, blowing his nose harder
than seemed necessary. "Come over here, Koku, and I'll bandage up
your hands. Poor fellow, it must hurt a lot!"

"Oh, not so bad," was the simple reply.

While Mr. Damon gave first aid to the injured, Tom and Ned put new
bolts in place of the broken ones on the bed-plate, and they tested
them to see that they were perfect. New ones were also substituted
for the two that had been strained, and in the course of an hour the
repairs were made.

"Now we can run as an aeroplane again," said Tom. "But I'm not going
to try such speed again. It was the vibration that did it I guess."

They were now over a wild and desolate stretch of country, for the
region lying on either side of the imaginary line dividing Canada and
New York State, at the point where the St. Lawrence flows north-east,
is sparsely settled.

There were stretches of forest that seemed never to have been
penetrated, and here and there patches of stunted growth, with
little lakes dotted through the wilderness. There were hills and
valleys, small streams and an occasional village.

"Just the place for smuggling," observed Tom, as he looked at a map,
consulted a clock and figured out that they must be near
Logansville. "We can go down here in one of these hollows,
surrounded by this tangled forest, and no one would ever know we
were here. The smugglers could do the same."

"Are you going to try it?" asked Ned.

"I think I will. We'll go up to quite a height now, and I'll see if
I can pick out Logansville. That isn't much of a place I guess. When
I sight it I'll select a good place to lay hidden for a day or two,
until Mr. Whitford has had a chance to work up his clew."

The airship machinery was now working well again, and Tom sent his
craft up about three miles. From there, taking observations through
a powerful telescope, he was able, after a little while, to pick out
a small town. From its location and general outline he knew it to be
Logansville.

"We'll go down about three miles from it," he said to his chum.
"They won't be likely to see us then, and we'll stay concealed for a
while."

This plan was put into operation, and, a little later the Falcon
came to rest in a little grassy clearing, located in among a number
of densely wooded hills. It was an ideal place to camp, though very
lonesome.

"Now, Ned, let's cut a lot of branches, and pile them over the
airship," suggested Tom.

"Cover over the airship? What for?"

"So that in case anyone flies over our heads they won't look down
and see us. If the Fogers, or any of the smugglers, should happen to
pass over this place, they'd spot us in a minute. We've got to play
foxy on this hunt."

"That's so," agreed his chum; and soon the three of them were busy
making the airship look like a tangled mass of underbrush. Koku
helped by dragging big branches along under his arm, but he could
not use his hands very well.

They remained in the little grassy glade three days, thoroughly
enjoying their camp and the rest. Tom and Ned went fishing in a
nearby lake and had some good luck. They also caught trout in a
small stream and broiled the speckled beauties with bacon inside
them over live coals at a campfire.

"My! But that's good!" mumbled Ned, with his mouth full of hot
trout, and bread and butter.

"Yes, I'd rather do this than chase smugglers," said Tom, stretching
out on his back with his face to the sky. "I wish--"

But he did not finish the sentence. Suddenly from the air above them
came a curious whirring, throbbing noise. Tom sat up with a jump! He
and Ned gazed toward the zenith. The noise increased and, a moment
later, there came into view a big airship, sailing right over their
heads.

"Look at that!" cried Tom.

"Hush! They'll hear you," cautioned Ned.

"Nonsense! They're too high up," was Tom's reply. "Mr. Damon, bring
me the big binoculars, please!" he called.

"Bless my spectacles, what's up?" asked the odd gentleman as he ran
with the glasses toward Tom.

Our hero focused them on the airship that was swiftly sailing across
the open space in the wilderness but so high up that there was no
danger of our friends being recognized. Then the young inventor
uttered a cry of astonishment.

"It's Andy Foger!" he cried. "He's in that airship, and he's got two
men with him. Andy Foger, and it's a new biplane. Say, maybe that's
the new clew Mr. Whitford wired me about. We must get ready for
action! Andy in a new airship means business, and from the whiteness
of the canvas planes, I should say that craft was on its first
trip."




CHAPTER XII

WARNED AWAY


"Tom, are you sure it's Andy?"

"Take a look yourself," replied the young inventor, passing his chum
the binoculars.

"Bless my bottle of ink!" cried Mr. Damon. "Is it possible?"

"Quick, Ned, or you'll miss him!" cried Tom.

The young bank clerk focused the glasses on the rapidly moving
airship, and, a moment later, exclaimed:

"Yes, that's Andy all right, but I don't know who the men are with
him."

"I couldn't recognize them, either," announced Tom. "But say, Ned,
Andy's got a good deal better airship than he had before."

"Yes. This isn't his old one fixed over. I don't believe he ever
intended to repair the old one. That hiring of Mr. Dillon to do
that, was only to throw him, and us, too, off the track."

Ned passed the glasses to Mr. Damon, who was just in time to get a
glimpse of the three occupants of Andy's craft before it passed out
of sight over the trees.

"I believe you're right," said Tom to his chum. "And did you notice
that there's quite a body, or car, to that craft?"

"Yes, room enough to carry considerable goods," commented Ned. "I
wonder where he's going in it?"

"To Logansville, most likely. I tell you what it is, Ned. I think one
of us will have to go there, and see if Mr. Whitford has arrived. He
may be looking for us. I'm not sure but what we ought not to have
done this first. He may think we have not come, or have met with
some accident."

"I guess you're right, Tom. But how shall we go? It isn't going to
be any fun to tramp through those woods," and Ned glanced at the
wilderness that surrounded the little glade where they had been
camping.

"No, and I've about concluded that we might as well risk it, and go
in the airship. Mr. Whitford has had time enough to work up his
clew, I guess, and Andy will be sure to find out, sooner or later,
that we are in the neighborhood. I say let's start for Logansville."

Ned and Mr. Damon agreed with this and soon they were prepared to
move.

"Where will you find Mr. Whitford?" asked Ned of his chum, as the
Falcon arose in the air.

"At the post-office. That's where we arranged to meet. There is a
sort of local custom house there, I believe."

Straight over the forest flew Tom Swift and his airship, with the
great searchlight housed on top. They delayed their start until the
other craft had had a chance to get well ahead, and they were well
up in the air; there was no sight of the biplane in which Andy had
sailed over their heads a short time before.

"Where are you going to land?" asked Ned, as they came in view of
the town.

"The best place I can pick out," answered Tom. "Just on the
outskirts of the place, I think. I don't want to go down right in
the centre, as there'll be such a crowd. Yet if Andy has been using
his airship here the people must be more or less used to seeing
them."

But if the populace of Logansville had been in the habit of having
Andy Foger sail over their heads, still they were enough interested
in a new craft to crowd around when Tom dropped into a field near
some outlying houses. In a moment the airship was surrounded by a
crowd of women and children, and there would probably been a lot of
men, but for the fact that they were away at work. Tom had come down
in a residential section.

"Say, that's a beauty!" cried one boy.

"Let's see if they'll let us go on!" proposed another.

"We're going to have our own troubles," said Tom to his chum. "I
guess I'll go into town, and leave the rest of you on guard here.
Keep everybody off, if you have to string mildly charged electrical
wires about the rail."

But there was no need to take this precaution, for, just as the
combined juvenile population of that part of Logansville was
prepared to storm, and board the Falcon, Koku appeared on deck.

"Oh, look at the giant!"

"Say, this is a circus airship?"

"Wow! Ain't he big!"

"I'll bet he could lift a house!"

These and other expressions came from the boys and girls about the
airship. The women looked on open-mouthed, and murmurs of surprise
and admiration at Koku's size came from a number of men who had
hastily run up.

Koku stepped from the airship to the ground, and at once every boy
and girl made a bee-line for safety.

"That will do the trick!" exclaimed Tom with a laugh. "Koku, just
pull up a few trees, and look as fierce as Bluebeard, and I guess we
won't be troubled with curiosity seekers. You can guard the airship,
Koku, better than electric wires."

"I fix 'em!" exclaimed the giant, and he tried to look fierce, but
it was hard work, for he was very good natured. But he proved a
greater attraction than the aircraft, and Tom was glad of it, for he
did not like meddlers aboard.

"With Koku to help you, and Mr. Damon to bless things. I guess you
can manage until I come back, Ned," said the young inventor, as he
made ready to go in to town to see if Mr. Whitford had arrived.

"Oh, we'll get along all right," declared Ned. "Don't worry."

Tom found Mr. Whitford in one of the rooms over the post-office. The
custom house official was restlessly pacing the floor.

"Well, Tom!" he exclaimed, shaking hands, "I'm glad to see you. I
was afraid something had happened. I was delayed myself, but when I
did arrive and found you hadn't been heard from, I didn't know what
to think. I couldn't get you on the wireless. The plant here is out
of repair."

Tom told of their trip, and the wait they had decided on, and asked:

"What about the new clew; the Fogers?"

"I'm sorry to say it didn't amount to anything. I ran it down, and
came to nothing."

"You know Andy has a new airship?"

"Yes. I had men on the trail of it. They say Andy is agent for a
firm that manufactures them, but I have my doubts. I haven't given
up yet. But say, Tom, you've got to get busy. A big lot of goods was
smuggled over last night."

"Where?"

"Well, quite a way from here. I got a telegram about it. Can you get
on the job to-night, and do some patrol work along the border?
You're only half a mile from it now. Over there is Canada," and he
pointed to a town on a hill opposite Logansville.

"Yes, I can get right into action. What place is that?"

"Montford, Canada. I've got men planted there, and the Dominion
customs officials are helping us. But I think the smugglers have
changed the base of their operations for the time being. If I were
you I'd head for the St. Lawrence to-night."

"I will. Don't you want to come along?"

"Why, yes. I believe I'm game. I'll join you later in the day," Mr.
Whitford added, as Tom told him where the Falcon was anchored.

The young inventor got back to find a bigger crowd than ever around
his airship. But Koku and the others had kept them at a distance.

With the government agent aboard Tom sent his craft into the air at
dusk, the crowd cheering lustily. Then, with her nose pointed toward
the St. Lawrence, the Falcon was on her way to do a night patrol,
and, if possible, detect the smugglers.

It was monotonous work, and unprofitable, for, though Tom sent the
airship back and forth for many miles along the wonderful river that
formed the path from the Great Lakes to the sea, he had no glimpse
of ghostly wings of other aircraft, nor did he hear the beat of
propellers, nor the throb of motors, as his own noiseless airship
cruised along.

It came on to rain after midnight, and a mist crept down from the
clouds, so that even with the great searchlight flashing its
powerful beams, it was difficult to see for any great distance.

"Better give it up, I guess," suggested Mr. Whitford toward morning,
when they had covered many miles, and had turned back toward
Logansville.

"All right," agreed Tom. "But we'll try it again to-morrow night."

He dropped his craft at the anchorage he had selected in the gray
dawn of the morning. All on board were tired and sleepy. Ned,
looking from a window of the cabin, as the Falcon came to a stop,
saw something white on the ground.

"I wonder what that is?" he said as he hurried out to pick it up. It
was a large white envelope, addressed to Tom Swift, and the name was
in printed characters.

"Somebody who wants to disguise their writing," remarked Tom, as he
tore it open. A look of surprise came over his face.

"Look here! Mr. Whitford," he cried. "This is the work of the
smugglers all right!"

For, staring at Tom, in big printed letters, on a white sheet of
paper, was this message:

"If you know what is good for you, Tom Swift, you had better clear
out. If you don't your airship will burned, and you may get hurt.
We'll burn you in mid-air. Beware and quit. You can't catch us."

"THE COMMITTEE OF THREE."

"Ha! Warned away!" cried Tom. "Well, it will take more than this to
make me give up!" and he crumpled the anonymous warning in his hand.




CHAPTER XIII

KOKU SAVES THE LIGHT


"Don't do that!" cried Mr. Whitford.

"What?" asked Tom, in some surprise.

"Don't destroy that letter. It may give us a clew. Let me have it.
I'll put a man at work on that end of this game."

"Bless my checkerboard!" cried Mr. Damon. "This game has so many
ends that you don't know where to begin to play it."

The government man smoothed out the crumpled piece of paper, and
looked at it carefully, and also gazed at the envelope.

"It's pretty hard to identify plain print, done with a lead pencil,"
he murmured. "And this didn't came through the mail."

"I wonder how it got here?" mused Ned. "Maybe some of the crowd that
was here when we started off dropped it for the smugglers. Maybe the
smugglers were in that crowd!"

"Let's take a look outside," suggested Mr. Whitford. "We may be able
to pick up a clew there."

Although our friends were tired and sleepy, and hungry as well, they
forgot all this in the desire to learn more about the mysterious
warning that had come to them during the night. They all went
outside, and Ned pointed to where he had picked up the envelope.

"Look all around, and see if you can find anything more," directed
the custom agent.

"Footprints won't count," said Tom. "There was a regular circus
crowd out here yesterday."

"I'm not looking for footprints," replied Mr. Whitford, "I have an
idea--"

"Here's something!" interrupted Mr. Damon. "It looks like a lead
weight for a deep-sea fishing line. Bless my reel. No one could do
fishing here."

"Let me see that!" exclaimed Mr. Whitford eagerly. Then, as he
looked at it, he uttered a cry of delight. "I thought so," he said.
"Look at this bit of cord tied to the weight."

"What does that signify?" asked Tom.

"And see this little hole in the envelope, or, rather a place that
was a hole, but it's torn away now."

"I'm not much the wiser," confessed Ned, with a puzzled look.

"Why, it's as plain as print," declared the government agent. "This
warning letter was dropped from an airship, Tom."

"From an airship?"

"Yes. They sailed right over this place, and let the letter fall,
with this lead weight attached, to bring it to earth just where they
wanted it to fall."

"Bless my postage stamp!" cried Mr. Damon. "I never heard of such a
thing."

"I see it now!" exclaimed Tom. "While we were off over the river,
watching for the smugglers, they were turning a trick here, and
giving us a warning into the bargain. We should have stayed around
here. I wonder if it was Andy's airship that was used?"

"We can easily find that out," said Mr. Whitford. "I have a
detective stationed in a house not far from where the Fogers live.
Andy came back from Shopton yesterday, just before you arrived here,
and I can soon let you know whether he was out last night. I'll take
this letter with me, and get right up to my office, though I'm
afraid this won't be much of a clew after all. Print isn't like
handwriting for evidence."

"And to think they sailed right over this place, and we weren't
home," mourned Tom. "It makes me mad!"

But there was no use in regretting what had happened, and, after a
hot breakfast in the airship, with Mr. Damon presiding at the
electrical stove, they all felt more hopeful. Mr. Whitford left for
his office, promising to send word to Tom as to whether or not Andy
was abroad in the airship during the night.

"I wonder if that 'Committee of Three' is Andy and these two fellows
with him in the airship?" asked Ned.

"Hard telling," responded his chum. "Now for a good sleep. Koku,
keep the crowd away while we have a rest," for the giant had
indulged in a good rest while the airship was on patrol during the
night.

Not so much of a crowd came out as on the first day, and Koku had
little trouble in keeping them far enough away so that Tom and the
others could get some rest. Koku walked about, brandishing a big
club, and looking as fierce as a giant in a fairy tale.  It was
afternoon when a message came from Mr. Whitford to the effect that
Andy's airship was not out the previous night, and that so far no
clews had developed from the letter, or from any other source.

"We'll just have to keep our eyes open," wrote Mr. Whitford. "I
think perhaps we are altogether wrong about the Fogers, unless they
are deeper than I give them credit for. It might be well to let the
smugglers think you are frightened, and go away for a day or so,
selecting a more secluded spot to remain in. That may cause them to
get bolder, and we may catch them unawares."

"That's a good plan. I'll try it," decided Tom. "We'll move to-morrow
to a new location."

"Why not to-night?" asked Ned.

"Because it's getting late, and I want to circle about in daylight
and pick out a good place. Morning will do all right."

"Then you're not going out to-night?"

"No. Mr. Whitford writes that as goods were smuggled over last night
it will hardly be likely that they will repeat the trick to-night.
We'll have a little rest."

"Going to mount guard?" asked Ned.

"No, I don't think so. No one will disturb us."

Afterward the young inventor wished that he had kept a better watch
that night, for it nearly proved disastrous for him.

It must have been about midnight that Tom was awakened by a movement
in the airship.

"Who's that?" he asked suddenly.

"Koku," came the reassuring reply. "Too hot to sleep in my bunk. I
go out on deck."

"All right, Koku," and Tom dozed off again.

Suddenly he was awakened by the sound of a terrific scuffle on deck.
Up he jumped, rushing toward the door that led from his sleeping
cabin.

"What is it! What's the matter!" he cried.

There came the sound of a blow, a cry of pain, and then the report
of a gun.

"Bless my cartridge belt!" cried Mr. Damon.

"What's the matter? Who is it? What happened?" yelled Ned, tumbling
out of his bunk.

"Something wrong!" answered Tom, as he switched on the electric
lights. He was just in time to see Koku wrench a gun from a man who
stood near the pedestal, on which the great searchlight was poised.
Tossing the weapon aside, Koku caught up his club, and aimed a blow
at the man. But the latter nimbly dodged and, a moment later leaped
over the rail, followed by the giant.

"Who is he? What did he do?" cried Tom after his big servant. "What
happened?"

"Him try to shoot searchlight, but I stop him!" yelled back Koku, as
he rushed on in pursuit. With a leap Tom sprang to the switch of his
lantern, and sent a flood of light toward where Koku was racing
after the intruder.




CHAPTER XIV

A FALSE CLEW


Full in the glare of the powerful beam from the light there was
revealed the giant and the man he was pursuing. The latter neither
Tom, nor any one on the airship, knew. All they could see was that
he was racing away at top speed, with Koku vainly swinging his club
at him.

"Bless my chicken soup!" cried Mr. Damon. "Is anything damaged,
Tom?"

"No, Koku was too quick for him." yelled the youth, as he, too
leaped over the rail and joined in the pursuit.

"Stop! Stop!" called Koku to the man who had sought to damage the
great searchlight. But the fellow knew better than to halt, with an
angry giant so close behind him. He ran on faster than ever.

Suddenly the stranger seemed to realize that by keeping in the path
of the light he gave his pursuers a great advantage. He dodged to
one side, off the path on which he had been running, and plunged
into the bushes.

"Where him go?" called Koku, coming to a puzzled halt.

"Ned, play the light on both sides!" ordered Tom to his chum, who
was now on the deck of the airship, near the wheels and levers that
operated the big lantern. "Show him up!"

Obediently the young bank clerk swung the searchlight from side to
side. The powerful combined electric current, hissing into the big
carbons, and being reflected by the parabolic mirrors, made the
growth of underbrush as brightly illuminated as in day time. Tom
detected a movement.

"There he is, Koku!" he called to his giant servant. "Off there to
the left. After him!"

Raising his club on high, Koku made a leap for the place where the
fugitive was hiding. As the man saw the light, and sprang forward,
he was, for a moment, in the full glare of the rays. Then, just as
the giant was about to reach him, Koku stumbled over a tree root,
and fell heavily.

"Never mind, I'll get him!" yelled Tom, but the next moment the man
vanished suddenly, and was no longer to be seen in the finger of
light from the lantern. He had probably dipped down into some
hollow, lying there hidden, and as of course was out of the focus of
the searchlight.

"Come on, Koku, we'll find him!" exclaimed Tom, and together they
made a search, Mr. Damon joining them, while Ned worked the lantern.
But it was of no avail, for they did not find the stranger.

"Well, we might as well go back," said Tom, at length. "We can't
find him. He's probably far enough off by this time."

"Who was he?" panted Mr. Damon, as he walked beside Tom and Koku to
the airship. Ned had switched off the big light on a signal from the
young inventor.

"I don't know!" answered Tom.

"But what did he want? What was he doing? I don't quite understand."

"He wanted to put my searchlight out of commission," responded our
hero. "From that I should argue that he was either one of the
smugglers, or trying to aid them."

And this theory was borne out by Mr. Whitford, who, on calling the
next morning, was told of the occurrence of the night. Koku related
how he had found it uncomfortable in his bunk, and had gone out on
deck for air. There, half dozing, he heard a stealthy step. At once
he was on the alert. He saw a man with a gun creeping along, and at
first thought the fellow had evil designs on some of those aboard
the Falcon.

Then, when Koku saw the man aim at the big searchlight the giant
sprang at him, and there was a scuffle. The gun went off, and the
man escaped. An examination of the weapon he had left behind showed
that it carried a highly explosive shell, which, had it hit the
lantern, would have completely destroyed it, and might have damaged
the airship.

"It was the smugglers, without a doubt," declared Mr. Whitford. "You
can't get away from this place any too soon, Tom. Get a new hiding
spot, and I will communicate with you there."

"But they are on the watch," objected Ned. "They'll see where we go,
and follow us. The next time they may succeed in smashing the
lantern."

"And if they do," spoke Tom, "it will be all up with trying to
detect the smugglers, for it would take me quite a while to make
another searchlight. But I have a plan."

"What is it?" asked the government agent.

"I'll make a flight to-day," went on the young inventor, "and sail
over quite an area. I'll pick out a good place to land, and we'll
make our camp there instead of here. Then I'll come back to this
spot, and after dark I'll go up, without a light showing. There's no
moon to-night, and they'll have pretty good eyes if they can follow
me, unless they get a searchlight, and they won't do that for fear
of giving themselves away. We'll sail off in the darkness, go to the
spot we have previously picked out, and drop down to it. There we can
hide and I don't believe they can trace us."

"But how can you find in the darkness, the spot you pick out in
daylight?" Mr. Whitford wanted to know.

"I'll arrange some electric lights, in a certain formation in trees
around the landing place," said Tom. "I'll fix them with a clockwork
switch, that will illuminate them at a certain hour, and they'll run
by a storage battery. In that way I'll have my landing place all
marked out, and, as it can only be seen from above, if any of the
smugglers are on the ground, they won't notice the incandescents."

"But if they are in their airship they will," said Mr. Damon.

"Of course that's possible," admitted Tom, "but, even if they see
the lights I don't believe they will know what they mean. And,
another thing, I don't imagine they'll come around here in their
airship when they know that we're in the neighborhood, and when the
spy who endeavored to damage my lantern reports that he didn't
succeed. They'll know that we are likely to be after them any
minute."

"That's so," agreed Ned. "I guess that's a good plan."

It was one they adopted, and, soon after Mr. Whitford's visit the
airship arose, with him on board, and Tom sent her about in great
circles and sweeps, now on high and again, barely skimming over the
treetops. During this time a lookout was kept for any other
aircraft, but none was seen.

"If they are spying on us, which is probably the case," said Tom,
"they will wonder what we're up to. I'll keep 'em guessing. I think
I'll fly low over Mr. Foger's house, and see if Andy has his airship
there. We'll give him a salute."

Before doing this, however, Tom had picked out a good landing place
in a clearing in the woods, and had arranged some incandescent
lights on high branches of trees. The lights enclosed a square, in
the centre of which the Falcon was to drop down.

Of course it was necessary to descend to do this, to arrange the
storage battery and the clock switch. Then, so as to throw their
enemies off their track, they made landings in several other places,
though they did nothing, merely staying there as a sort of "bluff"
as Ned called it.

"They'll have their own troubles if they investigate every place we
stopped at," remarked Tom, "and, even if they do hit on the one we
have selected for our camp they won't see the lights in the trees,
for they're well hidden."

This work done, they flew back toward Logansville, and sailed over
Andy's house.

"There he is, on the roof, working at his airship!" exclaimed Ned,
as they came within viewing distance, and, surely enough, there was
the bully, tinkering away at his craft. Tom flew low enough down to
speak to him, and, as the Falcon produced no noise, it was not
difficult to make their voices heard.

"Hello, Andy!" called Tom, as he swept slowly overhead.

Andy looked up, but only scowled.

"Nice day; isn't it?" put in Ned.

"You get on away from here!" burst out the bully. "You are
trespassing, by flying over my house, and I could have you arrested
for it. Keep away."

"All right," agreed Tom with a laugh. "Don't trespass by flying over
our ship, Andy. We also might have a gun to shoot searchlights
with," he added.

Andy started, but did not reply, though Tom, who was watching him
closely, thought he saw an expression of fear come over the bully's
face.

"Do you think it was Andy who did the shooting?" asked Ned.

"No, he hasn't the nerve," replied Tom. "I don't know what to think
about that affair last night."

"Excepting that the smugglers are getting afraid of you, and want to
get you out of the way," put in the custom official.

That night, when it was very dark, the Falcon noiselessly made her
way upward and sailed along until she was over the square in the
forest, marked out by the four lights. Then Tom sent her safely
down.

"Now let 'em find us if they can!" the young inventor exclaimed, as he
made the craft fast. "We'll turn in now, and see what happens
to-morrow night."

"I'll send you word, just as soon as I get any myself," promised Mr.
Whitford, when he left the next morning.

Tom and Ned spent the day in going over the airship, making some
minor repairs to it, and polishing and oiling the mechanism of the
searchlight, to have it in the best possible condition.

It was about dusk when the wireless outfit, with which the Falcon
was fitted, began snapping and cracking.

"Here comes a message!" cried Tom, as he clapped the receiver over
his head, and began to translate the dots and dashes.

"It's from Mr. Whitford!" he exclaimed, when he had written it down,
and had sent back an answer, "He says: 'Have a tip that smugglers
will try to get goods over the border at some point near Niagara
Falls to-morrow night. Can you go there, and cruise about? Better
keep toward Lake Ontario also. I will be with you. Answer.'"

"What answer did you send?" asked Ned.

"I told him we'd be on the job. It's quite a little run to make, and
we can't start until after dark, or otherwise some of the smugglers
around here may see us, and tip off their confederates. But I guess
we can make the distance all right."

Mr. Whitford arrived at the airship the next afternoon, stating that
he had news from one of the government spies to the effect that a
bold attempt would be made that night.

"They're going to try and smuggle some diamonds over on this trip,"
said the custom agent.

"Well, we'll try to nab them!" exclaimed Tom.

As soon as it was dark enough to conceal her movements, the Falcon
was sent aloft, not a light showing, and, when on high, Tom started
the motor at full speed. The great propellers noiselessly beat the
air, and the powerful craft was headed for Lake Ontario.

"They're pretty good, if they attempted to cross the lake to-night,"
observed the young inventor, as he looked at the barometer.

"Why so?" asked Ned.

"Because there's a bad storm coming up. I shouldn't want to risk it.
We'll keep near shore. We can nab them there as good as over the
lake."

This plan was adopted, and as soon as they reached the great body of
water--the last in the chain of the Great Lakes--Tom cruised about,
he and Ned watching through powerful night glasses for a glimpse of
another airship.

Far into the night they sailed about, covering many miles, for Tom ran
at almost top speed. They sailed over Niagara Falls, and then well
along the southern shore of Ontario, working their way north-east and
back again. But not a sign of the smugglers did they see.

Meanwhile the wind had arisen until it was a gale, and it began to
rain. Gently at first the drops came down, until at length there was
a torrent of water descending from the overhead clouds. But those in
the Falcon were in no discomfort.

"It's a bad storm all right!" exclaimed Tom, as he looked at the
barometer, and noted that the mercury was still falling.

"Yes, and we have had our trouble for our pains!" declared Mr.
Whitford.

"What do you mean?"

"I mean I believe that we have been deceived by a false clew. The
smugglers probably had no intention of getting goods across at this
point to-night. They saw to it that my agent got false information,
believing that we would follow it, and leave the vicinity of
Logansville."

"So they could operate there?" asked Tom.

"That's it," replied the agent. "They drew us off the scent. There's
no help for it. We must get back as soon as we can. My! This is a
bad storm!" he added, as a blast careened the airship.




CHAPTER XV

THE RESCUE ON THE LAKE


For a time the Falcon shot onward through the storm and darkness,
for Tom did not want to give up. With but a single shaded light in
the pilot house, so that he could see to read the gauges and dials,
telling of the condition of the machinery in the motor room, he
pushed his stanch craft ahead. At times she would be forced downward
toward the angry waters of Lake Ontario, over which she was sailing,
but the speed of her propellers and the buoyancy of the gas bag,
would soon lift her again.

"How much longer are you going to stay?" called Ned in his chum's
ear--called loudly, not to be heard above the noise of the airship,
but above the racket of the gale.

"Oh, I guess we may as well start back," spoke Tom, after a look at
the clock on the wall. "We can just about make our camp by daylight,
and they won't see us."

"It won't be light very early," observed Mr. Whitford, looking in
the pilot house from the cabin, just aft of it. "But there is no use
waiting around here any more, Tom. They gave us a false clew, all
right."

"Bless my police badge!" cried Mr. Damon. "They must be getting
desperate."

"I believe they are," went on the custom officer. "They are afraid
of us, and that's a good sign. We'll keep right after 'em, too. If
we don't get 'em this week, we will next. Better put back."

"I will," decided the young inventor.

"It certainly is a gale," declared Ned, as he made his way along a
dim passage, as few lights had been set aglow, for fear of the
smugglers seeing the craft outlined in the air. Now, however, when
it was almost certain that they were on the wrong scent, Tom
switched on the incandescents, making the interior of the Falcon
more pleasant.

The giant came into the pilot house to help Tom, and the airship was
turned about, and headed toward Logansville. The wind was now
sweeping from the north across Lake Ontario, and it was all the
powerful craft could do to make headway against it.

There came a terrific blast, which, in spite of all that Tom and
Koku could do, forced the Falcon down, dangerously close to the
dashing billows.

"Hard over, Koku!" called Tom to his giant.

As the airship began to respond to the power of her propellers, and
the up-tilted rudder, Tom heard, from somewhere below him, a series
of shrill blasts on a whistle.

"What's that?" he cried.

"Sounds like a boat below us," answered Mr. Whitford.

"I guess it is," agreed the young inventor. "There she goes again."

Once more came the frantic tooting of a whistle, and mingled with it
could be heard voices shouting in fear, but it was only a confused
murmur of sound. No words could be made out.

"That's a compressed air whistle!" decided Tom. "It must be some
sort of a motor boat in distress. Quick, Mr. Whitford! Tell Ned to
switch on the searchlight, and play it right down on the lake. If
there's a boat in this storm it can't last long. Even an ocean liner
would have trouble. Get the light on quick, and we'll see what we
can do!"

It was the work of but an instant to convey the message to Ned. The
latter called Mr. Damon to relieve him in the motor room, and, a few
seconds later, Ned had switched on the electricity. By means of the
lazy-tongs, and the toggle joints, the bank clerk lifted the lantern
over until the powerful beam from it was projected straight down
into the seething waters of the lake.

"Do you see anything?" asked Mr. Damon from the motor room, at one
side of which Ned stood to operate the lantern.

"Nothing but white-caps," was the answer. "It's a fearful storm."

Once more came the series of shrill whistles, and the confused
calling of voices. Ned opened a window, in order to hear more
plainly. As the whistle tooted again he could locate the sound, and,
by swinging the rays of the searchlight to and fro he finally picked
up the craft.

"There she is!" he cried, peering down through the plate glass
window in the floor of the motor room. "It's a small gasolene boat,
and there are several men in her! She's having a hard time."

"Can we rescue them?" asked Mr. Damon.

"If anybody can, Tom Swift will," was Ned's reply. Then came a
whistle from the speaking tube, that led to the pilot house.

"What is it?" asked Ned, putting the tube to his ear.

"Stand by for a rescue!" ordered Tom, who had also, through a window
in the floor of the pilot house, seen the hapless motor boat. The
men in it were frantically waving their hands to those on the
airship. "I'm going down as close as I dare," went on Tom. "You
watch, and when it's time, have Koku drop from the stern a long,
knotted rope. That will be a sort of ladder, and they can make it
fast to their boat and climb up, hand over hand. It's the only
plan."

"Good!" cried Ned. "Send Koku to me. Can you manage alone in the
pilot house?"

"Yes," came back the answer through the tube.

Koku came back on the run, and was soon tying knots in a strong
rope. Meanwhile Ned kept the light on the tossing boat, while Tom,
through a megaphone had called to the men to stand by to be rescued.
The whistle frantically tooted their thanks.

Koku went out on the after deck, and, having made the knotted rope
fast, dropped the end overboard. Then began a difficult feature of
airship steering. Tom, looking down through the glass, watched the
boat in the glare of the light. Now coming forward, now reversing
against the rush of the wind; now going up, and now down, the young
inventor so directed the course of his airship so that, finally, the
rope dragged squarely across the tossing boat.

In a trice the men grabbed it, and made it fast. Then Tom had
another difficult task--that of not allowing the rope to become
taut, or the drag of the boat, and the uplift of the airship might
have snapped it in twain. But he handled his delicate craft of the
air as confidently as the captain of a big liner brings her
skillfully to the deck against wind and tide.

"Climb up! Climb up!" yelled Tom, through the megaphone, and he saw,
not a man, but a woman, ascending the knotted rope, hand over hand,
toward the airship that hovered above her head.




CHAPTER XVI

KOKU'S PRISONER


"Bless my knitting needles!" cried Mr. Damon, as he looked down, and
saw, in the glare of the great light, the figure of the woman
clinging to the swaying rope. "Help her, someone! Tom! Ned! She'll
fall!"

The eccentric man started to rush from the motor room, where he had
been helping Ned. But the latter cried:

"Stay where you are, Mr. Damon. No one can reach her now without
danger to himself and her. She can climb up, I think."

Past knot after knot the woman passed, mounting steadily upward,
with a strength that seemed remarkable.

"Come on!" cried Tom to the others. "Don't wait until she gets up.
There isn't time. Come on--the rope will hold you all! Climb up!"

The men in the tossing and bobbing motor boat heard, and at once
began, one after the other, to clamber up the rope. There were five
of them, as could be seen in the glare of the light, and Tom, as he
watched, wondered what they were doing out in the terrific storm at
that early hour of the morning, and with a lone woman.

"Stand by to help her, Koku!" called Ned to the giant.

"I help," was the giant's simple reply, and as the woman's head came
above the rail, over which the rope ran, Koku, leaning forward,
raised her in his powerful arms, and set her carefully on the deck.

"Come into the cabin, please," Ned called to her. "Come in out of
the wet."

"Oh, it seems a miracle that we are saved!" the woman gasped, as,
rain-drenched and wind-tossed, she staggered toward the door which
Tom had opened by means of a lever in the pilot house. The young
inventor had his hands full, manipulating the airship so as to keep
it above the motor boat, and not bring too great a strain on the
rope.

The woman passed into the cabin, which was between the motor room
and the pilot house, and Ned saw her throw herself on her knees, and
offer up a fervent prayer of thanksgiving. Then, springing to her
feet, she cried:

"My husband? Is he safe? Can you save him? Oh, how wonderful that
this airship came in answer to our appeals to Providence. Whose is
it?"

Before Ned got a chance to answer her, as she came to the door of
the motor room, a man's voice called:

"My wife! Is she safe?"

"Yes, here I am," replied the woman, and a moment later the two were
in each other's arms.

"The others; are they safe?" gasped the woman, after a pause.

"Yes," replied the man. "They are coming up the rope. Oh, what a
wonderful rescue! And that giant man who lifted us up on deck! Oh,
do you recall in Africa how we were also rescued by airship--"

"Come on now, I got you!" interrupted the voice of Koku out on the
after deck, and there was a series of thumps that told when he had
lifted the men over the rail, and set them down.

"All saved!" cried the giant at last.

"Then cut the rope!" shouted Tom. "We've got to get out of this, for
it's growing worse!"

There was the sound of a hatchet blow, and the airship shot upward.
Into the cabin came the dripping figures of the other men, and Ned,
as he stood by the great searchlight, felt a wave of wonder sweep
over him as he listened to the voices of the first man and woman.

He knew he had heard them before, and, when he listened to the
remark about a rescue by airship, in Africa, a flood of memory came
to him.

"Can it be possible that these are the same missionaries whom Tom
and I rescued from the red pygmies?" he murmured. "I must get a look
at them."

"Our boat, it is gone I suppose," remarked one of the other men,
coming into the motor room.

"I'm afraid so," answered Ned, as he played the light on the doomed
craft. Even as he did so he saw a great wave engulf her, and, a
moment later she sank. "She's gone," he said softly.

"Too bad!" exclaimed the man. "She was a fine little craft. But how
in the world did you happen along to rescue us? Whose airship is
this?"

"Tom Swift's," answered Ned, and, at the sound of the name the woman
uttered a cry, as she rushed into the motor room.

"Tom Swift!" she exclaimed. "Where is he? Oh, can it be possible
that it is the same Tom Swift that rescued us in Africa?"

"I think it is, Mrs. Illingway," spoke Ned quietly, for he now
recognized the missionary, though he wondered what she and her
husband were doing so far from the Dark Continent.

"Oh, I know you--you're Ned Newton--Tom's chum! Oh, I am so glad!
Where is Tom?"

"In the pilot house. He'll be here in a moment."

Tom came in at that juncture, having set the automatic steering geer
to take the ship on her homeward course.

"Are they all saved?" he asked, looking at the little group of
persons who had climbed up from the motor boat. "Mr. Damon, you had
better make some hot coffee. Koku, you help. I--"

"Tom Swift!" cried out Mr. and Mrs. Illingway together, as they made
a rush for the young inventor. "Don't you know us?"

To say that Tom was surprised at this, would be putting it mildly.
He had to lean up against the side of the cabin for support.

"Mrs. Illingway!" he gasped. "You here--were you in that boat?"

"Yes. it's all very simple. My husband and I are on a vacation for a
year. We got fever and had to leave Africa. We are staying with
friends at a resort on the lake shore. These are our friends," she
went on, introducing the other gentlemen.

"We went out for a trip in the motor boat," the missionary
continued, "but we went too far. Our motor broke down, we could get
no help, and the storm came up. We thought we were doomed, until we
saw your lights. I guessed it was a balloon, or some sort of an
airship, and we whistled; and called for help. Then you rescued us!
Oh, it is almost too wonderful to believe. It is a good thing I have
practiced athletics or I never could have climbed that rope."

"It is like a story from a book!" added Mr. Illingway, as he grasped
Tom's hand. "You rescued us in Africa and again here." I may say
here that the African rescue is told in detail in the volume
entitled, "Tom Swift and His Electric Rifle."

The shipwrecked persons were made as comfortable as possible. There
was plenty of room for them, and soon they were sitting around warm
electric heaters, drinking hot coffee, and telling their adventures
over again. Mr. and Mrs. Illingway said they soon expected to return
to Africa.

Tom told how he happened to be sailing over the lake, on the lookout
for smugglers, and how he had been disappointed.

"And it's a good thing you were--for our sakes," put in Mrs.
Illingway, with a smile.

"Where do you want to be landed?" asked Tom. "I don't want to take
you all the way back to Logansville."

"If you will land us anywhere near a city or town, we can arrange to
be taken back to our cottage," said one of the men, and Tom sent the
airship down until, in the gray dawn of the morning, they could pick
out a large village on the lake shore. Then, in much better
condition than when they had been saved, the rescued ones alighted,
showering Tom and the others with thanks, and sought a hotel.

"And now for our camp, and a good rest!" cried the young inventor,
as he sent the airship aloft again.

They reached their camp in the forest clearing without having been
observed, as far as they could learn, and at once set about making
things snug, for the storm was still raging.

"I don't believe any of the smugglers were abroad last night,"
remarked Mr. Whitford, as he prepared to go back into town, he
having come out on horseback, leaving the animal over night in an
improvised stable they had made in the woods of boughs and tree
branches.

"I hope not," replied Tom, but the next day, when the government
agent called again, his face wore a look of despair.

"They put a big one over on us the night of the rescue." he said.
"They flew right across the border near Logansville, and got away
with a lot of goods. They fooled us all right."

"Can you find out who gave the wrong tip?" asked Tom.

"Yes, I know the man. He pretended to be friendly to one of my
agents, but he was only deceiving him. But we'll get the smugglers
yet!"

"That's what we will!" cried Tom, determinedly.

Several days passed, and during the night time Tom, in his airship,
and with the great searchlight aglow, flew back and forth across the
border, seeking the elusive airships, but did not see them. In the
meanwhile he heard from Mr. and Mrs. Illingway, who sent him a
letter of thanks, and asked him to come and see them, but, much as
Tom would liked to have gone, he did not have the time.

It was about a week after the sensational rescue, when one evening,
as Tom was about to get ready for a night flight, he happened to be
in the pilot house making adjustments to some of the apparatus.

Mr. Damon and Ned had gone out for a walk in the woods, and Mr.
Whitford had not yet arrived. As for Mr. Koku, Tom did not know
where his giant servant was.

Suddenly there was a commotion outside. A trampling in the bushes,
and the breaking of sticks under feet.

"I got you now!" cried the voice of the giant.

Tom sprang to the window of the pilot house. He saw Koku tightly
holding a man who was squinting about, and doing his best to break
away. But it was useless. When Koku got hold of any one, that person
had to stay.

"What is it, Koku!" cried Tom.

"I got him!" cried the giant. "He sneaking up on airship, but I come
behind and grab him," and Koku fairly lifted his prisoner off his
feet and started with him toward the Falcon.




CHAPTER XVII

WHAT THE INDIAN SAW


"Hello!" cried Tom. "What's up, Koku?"

"Him up!" replied the giant with a laugh, as he looked at his
squirming prisoner, whose feet he had lifted from the ground.

"No, I mean what was he doing?" went on Tom, with a smile at the
literal way in which the giant had answered his question.

"I wasn't doing anything!" broke in the man. "I'd like to know if I
haven't a right to walk through these woods, without being grabbed
up by a man as big as a mountain? There'll be something up that you
won't like, if you don't let me go, too!" and he struggled fiercely,
but he was no match for giant Koku.

"What was he doing?" asked Tom of his big servant, ignoring the man.
Tom looked closely at him, however, but could not remember to have
seen him before.

"I walking along in woods, listen to birds sing," said Koku simply,
taking a firmer hold on his victim. "I see this fellow come along,
and crawl through grass like so a snake wiggle. I to myself think
that funny, and I watch. This man he wiggle more. He wiggle more
still, and then he watch. I watch too. I see him have knife in hand,
but I am no afraid. I begin to go like snake also, but I bigger
snake than he."

"I guess so," laughed Tom, as he watched the man trying in vain to
get out of Koku's grip.

"Then I see man look up at balloon bag, so as if he like to cut it
with knife. I say to myself, 'Koku, it is time for you to go into
business for yourself.' You stand under me?"

"I understand!" exclaimed Tom. "You thought it was time for you to
get busy."

"Sure," replied Koku. "Well, I get business, I give one jump, and I
am so unlucky as to jump with one foot on him, but I did not mean
it. I go as gentle as I can."

"Gentle? You nearly knocked the wind out of me!" snarled the
prisoner. "Gentle! Huh!"

"I guess he was the unlucky one, instead of you," put in Tom. "Well,
what happened next?"

"I grab him, and--he is still here," said Koku simply. "He throw
knife away though."

"I see," spoke Tom. "Now will you give an account of yourself, or
shall I hand you over to the police?" he asked sternly of the man.
"What were you sneaking up on us in that fashion for?"

"Well, I guess this isn't your property!" blustered the man. "I have
as good a right here as you have, and you can't have me arrested for
that."

"Perhaps not," admitted Tom. "You may have a right on this land, but
if you are honest, and had no bad intentions, why were you sneaking
up, trying to keep out of sight? And why did you have a big knife?"

"That's my business, young man."

"All right, then I'll make it MY business, too," went on the young
inventor. "Hold him, Koku, until I can find Mr. Damon, or Ned, and
I'll see what's best to be done. I wish Mr. Whitford was here."

"Aren't you going to let me go?" demanded the man.

"I certainly am not!" declared Tom firmly. "I'm going to find out
more about you. I haven't any objections to any one coming to look
at my airship, out of curiosity, but when they come up like a snake
in the grass and with a big knife, then I get suspicious, and I want
to know more about them."

"Well, you won't know anything more about me!" snarled the fellow.
"And it will be the worse for you, if you don't let me go. You'd
better!" he threatened.

"Don't pay any attention to him, Koku," said Tom. "Maybe you'd
better tie him up. You'll find some rope in the motor room."

"Don't you dare tie me up!" blustered the prisoner.

"Go ahead and tie him," went on Tom. "You'll be free to guard the
ship then. I'll go for Ned and Mr. Damon."

"Tie who up? What's the matter?" asked a voice, and a moment later
the government agent came along the woodland path on his horse.
"What's up, Tom? Have you captured a wild animal?"

"Not exactly a wild animal. Mr. Whitford. But a wild man. I'm glad
you came along. Koku has a prisoner." And Tom proceeded to relate
what had happened.

"Sneaking up on you with a knife; eh? I guess he meant business all
right, and bad business, too," said Mr. Whitford. "Let me get a look
at him, Tom," for Koku had taken his prisoner to the engine room,
and there, amid a storm of protests and after a futile struggle on
the part of the fellow, had tied him securely.

Tom and the custom officer went in to look at the man, just as Ned
and Mr. Damon came back from their stroll in the woods. It was
rapidly getting dusk, and was almost time for the start of the usual
flight, to see if any trace could be had of the smugglers.

"There he is," said Tom, waving his hand toward the bound man who
sat in a chair in one corner of the motor room. The young inventor
switched on the light, and a moment later Mr. Whitford exclaimed:

"Great Scott! It's Ike Shafton!"

"Do you know him?" asked Tom eagerly.

"Know him? I should say I did! Why he's the man who pretended to
give one of my men information about smugglers that drew us off on
the false scent. He pretended to be for the government, and, all the
while, he was in with the smugglers! Know him? I should say I did!"

A queer change had come over the prisoner at the sight of Mr.
Whitford. No longer was Shafton surly and blustering. Instead he
seemed to slink down in his chair, bound as he was, as if trying to
get out of sight.

"Why did you play double?" demanded the government agent, striding
over to him.

"I--I--don't hit me!" whined Shafton.

"Hit you! I'm not going to hit you!" exclaimed Mr. Whitford, "but
I'm going to search you, and then I'm going to wire for one of my
men to take you in custody."

"I--I didn't do anything!"

"You didn't; eh? Well, we'll see what the courts think of giving
wrong information to Uncle Sam with the intent to aid criminals.
Let's see what he's got in his pockets."

The spy did not have much, but at a sight of one piece of paper Mr.
Whitford uttered a cry of surprise.

"Ha! This is worth something!" he exclaimed. "It may be stale news,
and it may be something for the future, but it's worth trying. I
wonder I didn't think of that before."

"What is it?" asked Tom.

For answer the custom officer held out a scrap of paper on which was
written one word.

ST. REGIS.

"What does it mean," asked Ned, who, with Mr. Damon, had entered the
motor room, and stood curiously regarding the scene.

"Bless my napkin ring!" said the odd man. "That's the name of a
hotel. Do you suppose the smugglers are stopping there?"

"Hardly," replied Mr. Whitford with a smile. "But St. Regis is the
name of an Indian reservation in the upper part of New York state,
right on the border, and in the corner where the St. Lawrence and
the imaginary dividing line between New York and Canada join. I
begin to see things now. The smugglers have been flying over the
Indian Reservation, and that's why they have escaped us so far. We
never thought of that spot. Tom, I believe we're on the right track
at last! Shafton was probably given this to inform him where the
next trick would be turned, so he could get us as far away as
possible, or, maybe prevent us leaving at all."

An involuntary start on the part of the prisoner seemed to confirm
this, but he kept silent.

"Of course," went on Mr. Whitford, "they may have already flown over
the St. Regis reservation, and this may be an old tip, but it's
worth following up."

"Why don't you ask him?" Tom wanted to know, as he nodded toward
Shafton.

"He wouldn't tell the truth. I'll put him where he can't get away to
warn his confederates, and then we'll go to the reservation. And to
think that my man trusted him!"

Mr. Whitford was soon in communication with his headquarters by
means of the wireless apparatus on Tom's airship, and a little later
two custom officers arrived, with an extra horse on which they were
to take their prisoner back.

"And now we'll try our luck once more," said Mr. Whitford as his men
left with Shafton securely bound. "Can you make the reservation in
good time, Tom? It's quite a distance," and he pointed it out on the
map.

"Oh, I'll do it," promised the young inventor, as he sent his
powerful craft aloft in the darkness. Then, with her nose pointed in
the right direction, the Falcon beat her way forward through the
night, flying silently, with the great searchlight ready for instant
use.

In comparatively short time, though it was rather late at night,
they reached the St. Lawrence, and then it was an easy matter to
drop down into the midst of the reservation grounds. Though the
redmen, whom the state thus quartered by themselves, had all
retired, they swarmed out of their cabins as the powerful light
flashed back and forth.

"We want to question some of the head men of the tribe," said Mr.
Whitford. "I know some of them, for on several occasions I've had to
come here to look into rumors that tobacco and liquor and other
contraband goods dear to the Indian heart were smuggled into the
reservation against the law. I never caught any of them at it
though."

With guttural exclamations, and many grunts of surprise, the
redmen gathered around the big airship. It was too much even for
their usual reserve, and they jabbered among themselves.

"How Big Foot!" greeted the custom officer, to one Indian who had an
extremely large left foot. "How!"

"How!" responded the Indian, with a grunt.

"Plenty much fine air-bird; eh?" and the agent waved his hand toward
the Falcon.

"Yep. Plenty much big."

"Big Foot never see bird like this; eh?"

"Oh sure. Big Foot see before many times. Huh!"

"What! Has he seen this before?" asked Tom.

"No. Wait a minute," cautioned Mr. Whitford. "I'm on the track of
something. Big Foot see air-bird like this?" he questioned.

"Sure. Fly over Indians' land many times. Not same as him," and he
nodded toward Tom's ship, "but plenty much like. Make heap noise.
Come down once--break wheel mebby. Indians help fix. Indians get
firewater. You got firewater in your air-bird?"

"No firewater, but maybe we've got some tobacco, if you tell us what
we want to know, Big Foot. And so you've seen air-birds flying
around here before?"

"Sure, Heap times. We all see," and he waved his hand to indicate
the redmen gathered around him.

There came grunts of confirmation.

"We're getting there!" exclaimed Mr. Whitford to Tom. "We're on the
right track now. Which way air-birds come, Big Foot?"

"Over there," and he pointed toward Canada.

"Which way go?"

"Over there," and he pointed toward the east, in the direction of
Shopton, as much as anywhere.

"That's what we want to know. Tom, we'll just hang around here for a
while, until one of the smugglers' airships pass over head. I
believe one is due to-night, and that's why Shafton had that paper.
It was sent to him to tip him off. He was sneaking up, trying to put
your airship out of commission when Koku caught him. These Indians
have used their eyes to good advantage. I think we're on the trail
at last."

"Baccy for Big Foot?" asked the redman.

"Yes, plenty of it. Tom, give them some of Koku's, will you? I'll
settle with you later," for the giant had formed a liking for the
weed, and Tom did not have the heart to stop him smoking a pipe once
in a while. With his usual prodigality, the giant had brought along
a big supply, and some of this was soon distributed among the
Indians, who grunted their thanks.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE PURSUIT


"What plan have you in mind?" asked Tom of Mr. Whitford, when some
of the Indians had gone back to their shanties, leaving a few
staring curiously at the airship, as she rested on the ground,
bathed in the glow of her electric lights.

"Well, I think the best thing we can do is just to stay right here,
Tom; all night if need be. As Big Foot says, there have been
airships passing overhead at frequent intervals. Of course that is
not saying that they were the smugglers, but I don't see who else
they could be. There's no meet going on, and no continental race.
They must be the smugglers."

"I think so," put in Ned.

"Bless my diamond ring!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "But what are you
going to do when you see them overhead?"

"Take after them, of course!" exclaimed Tom. "That's what we're here
for; isn't it Mr. Whitford?"

"Yes. Do you think you can rise from the ground, and take after them
in time to stand a chance of overhauling them, Tom? You know they
may go very fast."

"I know, but I don't believe they can beat the Falcon. I'd rather
wait down here than hover in the air. It isn't as dark as it was the
other night, and they might see us with their glasses. Then they
would turn back, and we'd have our trouble for nothing. They've
actually got to cross the border with smuggled goods before the law
can touch them; haven't they?"

"Yes, I couldn't arrest them on Canadian territory, or over it. I've
got to get them on this side of the border. So perhaps it will be as
well to lie here. But do you suppose you can hear them or see them,
as they fly over?"

"I'm pretty sure I can. The sound of their motor and the whizz of
the propellers carries for some distance. And then, too, I'm going
to set the searchlight to play a beam up in the air. If that gets
focused on 'em, we'll spot 'em all right."

"But suppose they see it, and turn back?"

"I don't believe they will. The beam will come from the ground
straight upward you know, and they won't connect it with my ship."

"But that fellow who was sneaking up when Koku caught him, may find
some way to warn them that you have come here," suggested Ned.

"He won't get much chance to communicate with his friends, while my
men have him," said Mr. Whitford significantly. "I guess we'll take
a chance here, Tom."

So it was arranged. Everything on the airship was gotten ready for a
quick flight, and then Tom set his great searchlight aglow once
more. Its powerful beams cut upward to the clouds, making a
wonderful illumination.

"Now all we have to do is to wait and watch," remarked Tom, as he
came back from a last inspection of the apparatus in the motor room.

"And that is sometimes the hardest kind of work," said Mr. Whitford.
"Many a time I have been watching for smugglers for days and nights
at a stretch, and it was very wearying. When I got through, and
caught my man, I was more tired than if I had traveled hundreds of
miles. Just sitting around, and waiting is tiresome work."

The others agreed with him, and then the custom officer told many
stories of his experiences, of the odd places smugglers would hit
upon to conceal the contraband goods, and of fights he had taken
part in.

"Diamonds and jewels, from their smallness, and from the great
value, and the high duty on them when brought into the United
States, form the chief articles of the high class smugglers," he
said. "In fact the ones we are after have been doing more in
diamonds than anything else, though they have, of late, brought much
valuable hand-made lace. That can be bought comparatively cheap
abroad, and if they can evade paying Uncle Sam the duty on it, they
can sell it in the United States at a large profit."

"But the government has received so many complaints from legitimate
dealers, who can not stand this unfair competition, that we have
been ordered to get the smugglers at any cost."

"They are sharp rascals," commented Mr. Damon. "They seem to be
making more efforts since Tom Swift got on their trail."

"But, just the same, they are afraid of him, and his searchlight,"
declared Mr. Whitford. "I guess they fancied that when they took to
airships to get goods across the border that they would not be
disturbed. But two can play at that game."

The talk became general, with pauses now and then while Tom swept
the sky with the great searchlight, the others straining their eyes
for a sight of the smugglers' airships. But they saw nothing.

The young inventor had just paid a visit to the pilot house, to see
that his wheels and guiding levers were all right, and was walking
back toward the stern of the ship, when he heard a noise there, and
the fall of a heavy body.

"Who's that?" he cried sharply. "Is that you, Koku?"

A grunt was the only answer, and, as Tom called the giant's name the
big man came out.

"What you want, Mr. Tom?" he asked.

"I thought you were at the stern," spoke Tom. "Someone is there.
Ned, throw the light on the stern!" he called sharply.

In a moment that part of the ship was in a bright glare and there,
in the rays of the big lantern, was stretched out Big Foot, the
Indian, comfortably sleeping.

"Here! What are you doing?" demanded Mr. Whitford, giving him a
vigorous shake.

"Me sleep!" murmured Big Foot. "Lemme be! Me sleep, and take ride to
Happy Hunting Grounds in air-bird. Go 'way!"

"You'll have to sleep somewhere else, Big Foot," spoke the agent
with a laugh. "Koku, put him down under one of the trees over there.
He can finish his nap in the open, it's warm."

The Indian only protested sleepily, as the giant carried him off the
ship, and soon Big Foot was snoring under the trees.

"He's a queer chap," the custom officer said. "Sometimes I think
he's a little off in his head. But he's good natured."

Once more they resumed their watching. It was growing more and more
wearisome, and Tom was getting sleepy, in spite of himself.

Suddenly the silence of the night was broken by a distant humming
and throbbing sound.

"Hark!" cried Ned.

They all listened intently.

"That's an airship, sure enough!" cried Tom.

He sprang to the lever that moved the lantern, which had been shut
off temporarily. An instant later a beam of light cut the darkness.
The throbbing sounded nearer.

"There they are!" cried Ned, pointing from a window toward the sky.
A moment later, right into the glare of the light, there shot a
powerful biplane.

"After 'em, Tom!" shouted Mr. Whitford.

Like a bird the Falcon shot upward in pursuit noiselessly and
resistlessly, the beam of the great searchlight playing on the other
craft, which dodged to one side in an endeavor to escape.

"On the trail at last!" cried Tom, as he shoved over the accelerator
lever, sending his airship forward on an upward slant, right at the
stern of the smugglers' biplane.




CHAPTER XIX

IN DIRE PERIL


Upward shot the Falcon. With every revolution of her big propellers
she came nearer and nearer to the fleeing craft of the supposed
smugglers who were using every endeavor to escape.

"Do you think you can catch them, Tom?" asked Mr. Whitford as he stood
at the side of our hero in the pilot house, and looked upward and
forward to where, bathed in the light of the great search-lantern, the
rival craft was beating the air.

"I'm sure we can--unless something happens."

"Bless my overshoes! What can happen?" asked Mr. Damon, who, after
finding that everything in the motor room was running smoothly, had
come forward. Ned was attending to the searchlight. "What can
happen, Tom?"

"Almost anything, from a broken shaft to a short-circuited motor.
Only, I hope nothing does occur to prevent us from catching them."

"You don't mean to say that you're actually going to try to catch
them, do you, Tom?" asked the custom officer, "I thought if we could
trail them to the place where they have been delivering the goods,
before they shipped them to Shopton we'd be doing well. But I never
thought of catching them in mid-air."

"I'm going to try it," declared the young inventor. "I've got a
grappling anchor on board," he went on, "attached to a meter and
windlass. If I can catch that anchor in any part of their ship I can
bring them to a stop, just as a fisherman lands a trout. Only I've
got to get close enough to make a cast, and I want to be above them
when I do it."

"Don't you think you can catch them, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Well, I'm pretty sure I can, and yet they seem to have a faster
biplane than I gave them credit for. I guess I'll have to increase
our speed a little," and he shifted a lever which made the Falcon
shoot along at nearly doubled speed.

Still the other airship kept ahead, not far, but sufficiently so to
prevent the grappling anchor from being tossed at her rail.

"I wonder if they are the smugglers?" questioned Mr. Damon. "It
might be possible, Tom, that we're chasing the wrong craft."

"Possible, but not probable," put in Mr. Whitford. "After the clew
we got, and what the Indians told us, and then to have a biplane
come sailing over our heads at night, it's pretty sure to be the one
we want. But, Tom, can't you close up on 'em?"

"I'm going to try. The machinery is warmed up now, and I'll send it
to the limit."

Once more he adjusted the wheels and levers, and at his touch the
Falcon seemed to gain new strength. She fairly soared through the
air.

Eagerly those in the pilot house watched the craft they were
pursuing. She could be seen, in the glare of the big searchlight,
like some bird of gloom and evil omen, fluttering along ahead of
them.

"They certainly have a fine motor!" cried Tom. "I was sure I could
have caught up to them before this."

"How do you account for it?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Well, they're flying a good deal lighter than we are. They probably
have no load to speak of, while we carry a heavy one, to say nothing
of Koku."

"Diamonds aren't very heavy," put in Mr. Whitford grimly. "I think
they are smuggling diamonds to-night. How I wish we could catch
them, or trace them to where they have their headquarters."

"We'll do it!" declared Tom.

"Bless my stars! They've gone!" suddenly exclaimed Mr. Damon.
"They've disappeared, Tom, I can't see them."

It was indeed true. Those in the pilot house peering ahead through
the darkness, could not get a glimpse of the airship they were
pursuing. The beam of the searchlight showed nothing but a black
void.

All at once the beam shifted downward, and then it picked up the
white-winged craft.

"They went down!" cried Tom. "They tried to drop out of sight."

"Can't you get them?" asked Mr. Whitford.

"Oh, yes, we can play that game too. I'll do a little volplaning
myself," and the young inventor shut off the power and coasted
earthward, while Ned, who had picked up the forward craft, kept the
searchlight playing on her.

And now began a wonderful chase. The smugglers' craft, for such she
proved later to be, did her best to dodge the Falcon. Those managing
the mechanism of the fleeing airship must have been experts, to hold
out as they did against Tom Swift, but they had this advantage, that
their craft was much lighter, and more powerfully engined as regards
her weight. Then, too, there were not so many on board, and Tom,
having a combined balloon and aeroplane, had to carry much
machinery.

It was like the flight of two big birds in the air. Now the
smugglers' craft would be mounting upward, with the Falcon after
her. Again she would shoot toward the earth, and Tom would follow,
with a great downward swoop.

Ned kept the great lantern going, and, though occasionally the craft
they were after slipped out of the focus of the beams, the young
bank clerk would pick her up again.

To the right and left dodged the forward airship, vainly endeavoring
to shake off Tom Swift, but he would not give up. He followed move
for move, swoop for swoop.

"She's turning around!" suddenly cried Mr. Damon. "She's given up
the flight, Tom, and is going back!"

"That's so!" agreed Mr. Whitford. "They're headed for Canada, Tom.
We've got to catch 'em before they get over the Dominion line!"

"I'll do it!" cried Tom, between his clenched teeth.

He swung his airship around in a big circle, and took after the
fleeing craft. The wind was against the smugglers now, and they
could not make such good speed, while to Tom the wind mattered not,
so powerful were the propellers of the Falcon.

"I think we're gaining on them," murmured Mr. Damon.

Suddenly, from the engine room, came a cry from Ned.

"Tom! Tom!" he shouted, "Something is wrong with the gas machine!
She registers over five hundred pounds pressure, and that's too
much. It's going up, and I haven't touched it!"

"Mr. Damon, take the wheel!" exclaimed the young inventor. "I've got
to see what's wrong. Hold her right on their trail."

Tom sprang to the motor room, and one glance at the gas generating
machine showed him that they were in dire peril. In some manner the
pressure was going up enormously, and if it went up much more the
big tank would blow to pieces.

"What is it?" cried Ned, from his position near the light.

"I don't know! Something wrong."

"Are you going to give up the chase?"

"I am not. Stick to the light. Koku, tell Mr. Damon to hold her on
the course I set. I'll try to get this pressure down!" And Tom Swift
began to work feverishly, while his ship rushed on through the night
in danger, every moment, of being blown to atoms. Yet the young
inventor would not give up, and descend to earth.




CHAPTER XX

SUSPICIOUS ACTIONS


The chase was kept up, and Tom, when he had a chance to look up at
the speed register, as he labored frantically at the clogged gas
machine, saw that they were rushing along as they never had before.

"Are we catching them, Ned?" he cried to his chum, who was not far
away, playing the powerful light on the smugglers' craft.

"I think we're coming closer, but it's going to be a long chase. I
don't see why we can't close up on 'em."

"Because they've got a very fast ship, Ned, and they are flying much
lighter than we are. But we'll get 'em!"

"How are you making out with that gas machine?"

"Well, I'm doing all I can, but I can't seem to get the pressure
down. I can't understand it. Some of the pipes must be clogged with
a carbon deposit. I ought to have cleaned them out some time ago."

Ned gave a hasty glance at the gauge which showed the gas pressure.
It registered six hundred pounds now, having risen a hundred in a
short time.

"And she'll go up, sure, at eight hundred," murmured Ned, as he held
the light steadily on the smugglers' aircraft. "Well, if Tom sticks
to the chase, I will too, but I think it would be better to go down,
open up everything, and let the gas escape. We could get the rascals
later."

Tom, however, did not seem to think so, for he kept on with his
task, working away at the pipes, trying to force the obstruction
out, so that the gas from the generator would flow into the bag. At
the same time he tried to shut off the generating apparatus, but
that had become jammed in consequence of the pipe clogging, and the
powerful vapor continued to manufacture itself automatically in
spite of all that Tom could do.

The only safe way out of the danger, unless he could remove the
obstruction, was to descend to earth, and, as Ned had said, open
every outlet. But to have done that in mid-air would have been
dangerous, as the large volume of gas, suddenly liberated, would
have hung about the airship in a cloud, smothering all on board. If
they were on the earth they could run away from it, and remain away
until the vapor had blown off.

"Is Mr. Damon keeping her on the course, Ned?" asked Tom, pausing a
moment to get his breath after a series of frantic efforts.

"Yes, and I think we're closing in on them a little."

"That's good. Are they still headed for the border?"

"Yes, I guess they're going to take no chances to-night. They're
going right back to Canada where they came from."

"Well, we'll be hot after 'em. Whistle through the tube, and tell
Koku to come here and give me a hand. He's with Mr. Damon in the
pilot house."

Ned sent the message, and then gave his whole attention to the
light. This was necessary, as the smugglers were resorting to
dodging tactics, in an endeavor to escape. Now they would shoot
upward, and again toward the earth, varying the performance by
steering to the right or left. Ned had constantly to shift the light
to keep them in focus, so that Mr. Damon could see where to steer,
but, with all this handicap, the eccentric man did very well, and he
was never far out in his judgment.

"By Jove!" suddenly murmured Tom, as he tried once more in vain to
open a clogged valve. "I'm afraid we can't do it. Koku, lend a hand
here!" he exclaimed as the giant entered. "See if you can twist this
wrench around, but don't break off the handle, whatever you do."

"Me shove," replied the giant simply, as he grasped the big wrench.

Once more Ned glanced at the pressure gage. It showed seven hundred
pounds now, and there was only a margin of safety of one hundred
pounds more, ere a terrific explosion would occur. Still Tom had not
given the order to descend to earth.

"Are you going to make it, Tom?" asked the government agent,
anxiously, as he stood over the young inventor.

"I--I think so," panted Tom. "Are we near the Dominion line,"

"Pretty close," was the discouraging answer. "I'm afraid we can't
get 'em before they cross. Can you use any more speed?"

"I don't know. Ned, see if you can get another notch out of her."

With one hand Ned reached for the accelerator lever on the wall near
him, and pulled it to the last notch. The Falcon shot ahead with
increased speed, but, at the same instant there came a gasp from
Koku, and the sound of something breaking.

"There! He's done it!" cried Tom in despair. "I was afraid you'd be
too strong for that wrench, Koku. You've broken off the handle. Now
we'll never be able to loosen that valve."

Ned gave one more glance at the pressure gage. It showed seven
hundred and fifty pounds, and the needle was slowly moving onward.

"Hadn't we better descend," asked Mr. Whitford in a low voice.

"I--I guess so," answered Tom, despairingly. "Where are we?"

Ned flashed the light downward for an instant.

"Just crossing over the St. Regis Indian reservation again," he
replied. "We'll be in Canada in a few minutes more."

"Where are the smugglers?"

"Still ahead, and they're bearing off to the right."

"Going toward Montford," commented the government man. "We've lost
'em for to-night, anyhow, but they didn't get their goods landed, at
any rate."

"Send her down, Ned!" exclaimed Tom, and it was high time, for the
pressure was now within twenty-five pounds of the exploding point.

Down shot the Falcon, while her rival passed onward triumphantly in
the darkness. Ned held the light on the smugglers as long as he
dared, and then he flashed it to earth to enable Mr. Damon to pick
out a good landing place.

In a few moments Tom's silent airship came to rest on a little
clearing in the forest, and Tom, with Ned's help, at once opened
every outlet of the gas machine, a thing they had not dared do while
up in the air.

"Come on, now, run, everybody!" cried Tom. "Otherwise you'll be
smothered!"

They leaped from the craft, about which gathered the fumes of the
powerful gas, as it hissed from the pipes. Running a hundred yards
away they were safe, and could return in a few minutes.

"We're in Canada," remarked Mr. Whitford, as they came to a halt,
watching the airship.

"How do you know?" asked Ned.

"As we landed I saw one of the stone boundary posts," was the
answer. "We're on English territory, and we can't touch the
smugglers if we should see them now."

"Well, we'll soon be back in Uncle Sam's land," declared Tom. "We
can go back on board the Falcon to sleep shortly. Jove! I wish I
could have caught those fellows!"

"Never mind, we'll get 'em yet," counseled Mr. Whitford.

Waiting until he was sure all the vapor had disappeared, Tom led the
way back to the Falcon. No great harm had been done, save to lose
considerable gas, and this could be remedied. Tired and disappointed
from the chase, they sought their bunks, and were soon asleep. In
the morning Tom and Ned began work on the clogged pipes.

This work was nearly accomplished by noon, when Mr. Damon, coming
back from a stroll, announced that they were but fifteen minutes
walk from the St. Lawrence River, as he had seen the sparkling
waters from a neighboring hill.

"Let's go over and have a look at it," proposed Ned. "We can easily
finish this when we get back. Besides, Tom, we don't want to get to
our regular camp until after dark, anyhow."

The young inventor was willing, and the two lads, with Mr. Whitford,
strolled toward the historic stream. As they drew near the bank,
they saw, anchored a little distance out, a small steamer.
Approaching it, as if she had just left the shore at a point near
where our friends stood, was a gasolene launch, containing several
men, while on shore, in front of a small shanty, stood another man.

This latter individual, at the sight of Tom, Ned and Mr. Whitford,
blew a shrill whistle. Those in the launch looked back. The man on
shore waved a red flag in a peculiar way, almost as the soldiers in
the army wig-wag signals.

In another moment the launch turned about, and put for shore, while
the lone man hurried back into the hut.

"Hum!" remarked Tom. "Those are queer actions."

"Suspicious actions, I should say," said Mr. Whitford. "I'm going to
see what this means."




CHAPTER XXI

MR. PERIOD ARRIVES


Greatly interested in what was about to take place, and not a little
suspicious, our friends stood on the bank of the river and watched
the motor boat returning. As it reached a little dock in front of
the hut, the man who had waved the red flag of warning came out, and
talked rapidly to those in the power craft. At the same time he
pointed occasionally to Tom, Ned and the government agent.

"This is getting interesting," remarked Mr. Whitford. "We may have
accidentally stumbled on something important Tom."

"See, they're signalling to the steamer now," spoke Ned, and, as he
said this, his companions looked, and noted the man from the hut
waving a white flag, in a peculiar manner. His signals were answered
by those on the vessel anchored out in the stream, and, a little
later, black smoke could be seen pouring from her funnel.

"Looks as if they were getting ready to leave," spoke Tom.

"Yes, we seem to have started things moving around here," observed
Ned.

"Or else we have prevented from moving," remarked the custom agent.

"What do you mean?" Tom wanted to know.

"I mean that these men were evidently going to do something just as
we arrived, and spoiled their plans. I would say they were going to
land goods from that schooner. Now they are not."

"What kind of goods?" asked Ned.

"Well, of course I'm not sure, but I should say smuggled goods."

"The smugglers!" cried Tom. "Why, they can't be smugglers, for we
are on Canadian territory. The river isn't the dividing line between
the Dominion and the United States at this point. The St. Lawrence
lies wholly in Canada here, and the men have a right to land any
goods they want to, dutiable or not."

"That's just it." put in Mr. Whitford. "They have the right, but
they are afraid to exercise it, and that's what makes me suspicious.
If they were doing a straight business they wouldn't be afraid, no
matter who saw them. They evidently recognize us, by description, if
by no other means, and they know we are after smugglers. That's why
they stopped the bringing of goods from that vessel to shore. They
want to wait until we are gone."

"But we couldn't stop them from landing goods, even if they know we
are working for Uncle Sam," declared Tom.

"That's very true, but it is evidently their intention, not only to
land goods here, which they have a perfect right to do, but to send
them into the United States, which they have not a right to do
without paying the duty."

"Then you really think they are the smugglers?" asked Ned.

"I'm pretty sure of it. I think we have stumbled on one of the
places where the goods are landed, and where they are loaded into
the airships. This is the best luck we could have, and it more than
makes up for not catching the rascals last night. Now we know where
to get on their trail."

"If they don't change the place," observed Tom.

"Oh, of course, we've got to take that chance."

"Here's one of them coming over to speak to us, I guess," remarked
Tom in a low voice, as he observed the man, who had waved the flag
approaching. There was no doubt of his intention for, as soon as he
came within talking distance, the stranger called out:

"What are you fellows doing here?"

"Looking at the river," replied Mr. Whitford, calmly.

"Well, you'd better find some other place for a view. This is
private property, and we don't like trespassers. Get a move on--get
out!"

"Are we doing any harm?" asked the agent.

"I didn't say you were. This is our land, and we don't like
strangers snooping around. That's all."

"Particularly when you are going to land some goods."

"What do you mean?" gasped the man.

"I guess you know well enough," was Mr. Whitford's reply.

The man suddenly turned, and gave a shrill whistle. Instantly, from
the hut, came several men who had been in the motor boat. One or two
of them had weapons.

"I guess you'd better go now," said the first man sharply. "You're
not in the United States now, you know."

"It's easy to see that, by the POLITENESS of the residents of this
section," put in Tom.

"None of your back talk! Get away from here!" cried the man. "If you
don't go peaceably--"

"Oh, we're going," interposed Mr. Whitford calmly. "But that isn't
saying we won't come back. Come on, boys. We'll get over on Uncle
Sam's territory."

The group of men stood silently watching them, as they filed back
through the woods.

"What do you make of it?" asked Tom of the agent.

"I'm positive that I'm right, and that they're the smugglers. But I
can't do anything on this side of the line. If ever I can catch them
across the border, though, there'll be a different story to tell."

"What had we better do?" inquired Ned.

"Go back to our airship, and leave for Logansville. We don't need to
land until night, though, but we can make a slow trip. Is the gas
machine all right again, Tom?"

"Practically so. If that hadn't gone back on me we would have had
those fellows captured by this time."

"Never mind. We did our best."

It did not take Tom and his chum long to complete the repairs, and
soon they arose in the air.

"Let's take a flight over where those fellows are, just to show them
what we can do," proposed Ned, and Tom and Mr. Whitford agreed to
it. Soon they were circling over the hut. The launch was just
starting out again, when a cry from the man who seemed to be a sort
of guard, drew the attention of his confederates to the noiseless
airship.

Once more the launch was turned about, and sent back to shore, while
those in it shook their fists at Tom and his friends.

"We can play tag with 'em up here!" chuckled Ned.

"There's the small vessel that pulled up anchor a while ago,"
remarked Mr. Whitford, pointing to the vessel which had steamed
around a wooded point. "They thought we had gone for good, and they
were getting ready to land the stuff. Well, we'll know where to head
for next time, when we watch for the smugglers at night."

Realizing that nothing more could be done, Tom sent his airship
toward the camp, just outside of Loganville. But he did not land
until after dark, when, making out the spot by means of the electric
lights, which were set aglow automatically at dark, he descended.

"We won't try anything to-night," said Mr. Whitford. "I doubt if the
smugglers will themselves, after their experience last night. I'll
get into town, see some of my men, and come out here to-morrow night
again."

Tom and Ned spent the following day in going carefully over the
Falcon, making some slight repairs. The great searchlight was
cleaned and adjusted, and then, as dusk came on once more Tom
remarked:

"Well, we're ready for 'em any time Mr. Whitford is."

Hardly had he spoken than the tramp of horses' feet was heard coming
along the bridle path through the woods, and a voice was heard to
exclaim:

"There, now, I understand it perfectly! You don't need to say
another word. I know it may be against the regulations, but I can
fix that. I'm the busiest man in the world, but I just had to come
up here and see Tom Swift. It's costing me a thousand dollars, but
the money is well spent. Now don't interrupt me! I know what you're
going to say! That you haven't time to bother with moving pictures.
But you have! I must have some moving pictures of your chase after
the smugglers. Now, don't speak to me, I know all about it. You
can't tell me anything. I'll talk to Tom. Are we most there?"

"Yes, we're here," answered Mr. Whitford's voice, and Tom fancied
the government agent was a bit puzzled by his strange companion.

"Bless my shoe string!" gasped Mr. Damon.

"Him picture man!" cried Koku.

"Mr. Period!" exclaimed Tom. "I wonder what he is doing here?" and
the next moment the excitable little man, for whom Tom had run so
many risks getting marvelous moving pictures, with the wizard
camera, entered the clearing where the airship was anchored.




CHAPTER XXII

HOVERING O'ER THE BORDER


"Well, Tom, you see I couldn't get along without you," exclaimed Mr.
Period, as he rushed forward and grasped Tom's hand, having alighted
in rather an undignified manner from the horse that he had ridden.
"I'm after you again."

"So I see." remarked our hero. "But I'm afraid I can't--"

"Tut! Tut! Don't say that," interrupted the moving picture man. "I
know what you're going to say. Don't do it! Don't go back on me,
Tom! Have you the wonderful moving picture camera with you."

"I have, Mr. Period, but--"

"Now! Now! That'll do," broke in the excitable little man. "If you
have it, that's enough. I want you to get me some films, showing you
in chase of the smugglers. They'll be great to exhibit in our chain
of theatres."

"How did you know I was here?" asked Tom. "Easily enough. I called
at your house. Your father told me where you were. I came on. It
cost me a thousand dollars--maybe more. I don't care! I've got to
have those films! You'll get them for me; won't you?"

"Well, I--"

"That's enough! I know what you're going to say. Of course you will!
Now how soon may I expect them. They ought to make a good run. Say
in a week?"

"It all depends on the smugglers," said Mr. Whitford.

"Yes, yes! I understand, of course. I know! This friend of yours has
been very kind to me, Tom. I looked him up as soon as I got to
Logansville, and told him what I wanted. He offered to show me the
way out here, and here I am. Let's have a look at the camera, to see
if it's in good shape. Are you going to have a try for the smugglers
to-night?"

"I think so," answered Tom. "As for the camera, really I've been so
busy I haven't had time to look at it since we started. I guess it's
all right. I don't know what made me bring it along, as I didn't
expect to use it."

"But with your great searchlight it will be just the thing,"
suggested Ned.

"Yes, I think so," added Mr. Whitford, who had been told about the
wizard instrument.

"Bless my detective badge!" cried Mr. Damon. "It may be just the
thing, Tom. You can offer moving pictures of the smugglers in court,
for evidence."

"Of course!" added Mr. Period. "Now, Tom, don't disappoint me."

"Well, I suppose I'll have to get the camera out, and set it up,"
conceded Tom with a laugh. "As you say, Mr. Damon, the pictures MAY
come in valuable. Come, Ned, you get out the camera, and set it up,
while Koku and I see to getting the ship in shape for a flight.
You'll come along, Mr. Period?"

"I don't know. I was thinking of going back. I'm losing about a
hundred dollars a minute by being away from my business."

"You'll have to go back alone," said Mr. Whitford, "as I have to be
with Tom, in case of a capture."

"Ride back alone, through these woods? Never! The smugglers might
catch me, and I'm too valuable a man to go that way! I'll take a
chance in the airship."

Ned busied himself over the wizard camera, which had been stored
away, and Mr. Period went with the young bank clerk to look after
the apparatus. Meanwhile Tom and Koku saw to it that the Falcon was
ready for a quick flight, Mr. Damon and Mr. Whitford lending
whatever aid was necessary. The horses, which the agent and Mr.
Period had ridden, were tethered in the clearing where they could
get food and water.

"Did the smugglers rush anything over last night?" asked Tom.

"No, we evidently had them frightened. But I shouldn't be surprised
but what they made the attempt to-night. We'll go back toward the
St. Regis Indian reservation, where they were getting ready to
unload that steamer, and hover around the border there. Something is
sure to happen, sooner or later."

"I guess that's as good a plan as any," agreed Tom, and in a little
while they started.

All that night they hovered over the border, sailing back and forth,
flashing the great light at intervals to pick up the white wings of
a smuggling airship. But they saw nothing.

Mr. Period was in despair, as he fully counted on a capture being
made while he was present, so that he might see the moving pictures
made. But it was not to be.

The wizard camera was all in readiness, but there was no need to
start the automatic machinery. For, search as Tom and his friends
did for a trace of the smugglers, they could see nothing. They put
on full speed, and even went as far as the limits of the Indian
reservation, but to no purpose. They heard no throbbing motor, no
whizz of great propellers, and saw no white, canvas wings against
the dark background of the sky, as Tom's craft made her way
noiselessly along.

"I guess we've frightened them away," said Mr. Whitford dubiously,
as it came near morning, and nothing suspicious had been seen or
heard. "They're holding back their goods, Tom until they think they
can take us unawares. Then they'll rush a big shipment over."

"Then's the time we must catch them," declared the young inventor.
"We may as well go back now."

"And not a picture!" exclaimed Mr. Period tragically. "Well, be sure
to get good ones when you do make a capture, Tom."

"I will," promised the young inventor. Then, with a last sweep along
the border he turned the nose of his craft toward Logansville. He
had almost reached the place, and was flying rather low over the
country roads, when Ned called:

"Hark! I hear something!"

The unmistakable noise of a gasolene motor in operation could be
distinguished.

"There they are!" cried Mr. Period.

"Bless my honeysuckle vine!" gasped Mr. Damon.

"The light, Ned, the light!" cried Tom.

His chum flashed the powerful beam all around the horizon, and
toward the sky, but nothing was visible.

"Try down below," suggested Mr. Whitford.

Ned sent the beams earthward. And there, in the glare, they saw a
youth speeding along on a motor-cycle. In an instant Tom grabbed up
the binoculars and focussed them on the rider.

"It's Andy Foger!" he cried.




CHAPTER XXIII

NED IS MISSING


There was a period of silence, following Tom's startling
announcement. There were several plate glass windows in the floor of
the airship, and through these they all gazed at the youth on the
motor-cycle. Only Tom, however, by the aid of the glasses, was able
to make out his features.

"Bless my spark plug! Andy Foger!" cried Mr. Damon. "Are you going
to try to catch him?"

"Get him and break chug-chug machine!" suggested Koku.

"What do you suppose he's up to, Tom?" asked Ned.

"Andy Foger speeding along at this hour of the morning," remarked
Mr. Whitford. "There must be something in the wind."

"Get a moving picture of him," urged Mr. Period. "I might be able to
use that."

"I hardly think it would be worth while," decided Tom. "You see Andy
hasn't done anything criminal, as far as we know. Of course I think
he is capable of it, but that's a different thing. He may be out
only on a pleasure jaunt, and he could stop us from showing the
pictures, if we took them."

"That's so," agreed Mr. Period. "Don't run any risks of a lawsuit.
It takes up too much of my time. Never mind the pictures."

"Just capture him, Tom, and see what he is doing," suggested Mr.
Damon. "Bless my chewing gum! But he must be up to something."

"Well, he's aware of the fact that we're watching him, at all
events!" exclaimed Mr. Whitford, for, at that moment, Andy, having
seen the glare of the light, glanced up. They could see him looking
at him, and, a second later, the Shopton bully steered his machine
down a side road where the overhanging trees were so thick that he
could not be made out, even by the powerful gleams of the great
searchlight.

"He's gone!" gasped Ned.

"Afraid I guess," added Mr. Damon. "That shows he was up to
something wrong. Well, what are we going to do?"

"Nothing, that I can see," spoke Mr. Whitford. "We can only go back
to our camping place, and make another try. This Andy Foger may, or
may not, be in with the smugglers. That's something we have yet to
prove. However, we can't do anything now."

In vain did Ned try to get the bully within range of the light. They
could hear the sounds of the motor cycle growing more and more
faint, and then, as it was rapidly getting light, and as they did
not want to be seen dropping into their camping place, they made all
haste toward it, before dawn should break.

"Well, I can't spend any more time here," declared Mr. Period, when
a hasty breakfast had been served.

"Will you ride back with me?" asked Mr. Whitford of the moving
picture man.

"Will I? Well, I guess I will! You can't lose me! I'm not going to
be captured by those smugglers. I'd be a valuable man for them to
have as a hostage. They'd probably ask a million dollars ransom for
me," and Mr. Period carefully straightened his brilliant red
necktie.

Soon he and Mr. Whitford were riding back to town, taking a
roundabout way, as the agent always did, to throw any possible spies
off the track.

Everyone, even including the giant Koku was tired enough to take a
sleep after dinner. It was about three o'clock when Ned awoke, and
he found Tom already up, and at the wireless instrument, which was
clicking and buzzing.

"Message coming?" asked the young bank clerk.

Tom nodded, and clasped the receiver over his ear. A moment later he
began jotting down a message.

"Mr. Whitford says he has a tip that something is going to take
place to-night," read the young inventor a few minutes later. "The
smugglers have accumulated a big store of goods, and they are
anxious to get them over the border. There are silks, laces,
diamonds, and other things on which there is a high duty, or tax for
bringing into the United States. He will be here early, and we must
be ready for a start at once."

"All right. I guess we are ready now. Say, I'm going over to that
little brook, and see if I can catch a few trout for supper."

"All right. Good idea. Don't be gone too long."

"I won't. Say, where is my coat, anyhow? I never can seem to keep
track of that, or my cap either."

"Never mind. Wear mine, and you won't be delayed looking for them,"
so Ned donned Tom's garment and headpiece, and set out.

Three hours passed, and Mr. Damon prepared to get supper.

"I wonder why Ned doesn't come back with the fish?" he said. "It's
time, if we're going to cook them to-night."

"That's right, he ought to be here," agreed Tom. "Koku take a walk
over to the trout brook, and tell Mr. Ned to come here, whether he
has any fish or not."

"Sure, me go, Mr. Tom!"

Koku was gone perhaps five minutes, and when he came back he was
much excited.

"Mr. Ned he no there!" the giant cried. "But fish pole all broken,
and ground all full of holes. Look like fight."

Tom started for the place where he knew Ned usually went to fish.
Koku and Mr. Damon followed. On reaching it our hero saw indeed that
the ground was "full of holes," as the giant described the
indentations made by the heels of boots and shoes.

"There's been a fight here!" cried Tom.

"Yes, and Ned is missing," added Mr. Damon.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE NIGHT RACE


The three looked at each other. For a moment they could not
understand, and then, as they stood there, the meaning came to them.

"The smugglers!" whispered Tom.

"Of course!" agreed Mr. Damon. "And they must have taken him for
you, Tom, for he had on your coat and cap. What can they have done
with him?"

"Taken him away, that's evident," spoke Tom. "Let's look around, and
see if we can find him."

They looked, but to no purpose. Ned had disappeared. There were the
signs of a struggle, the fish rod was broken in several places, as
if Ned had used it as a club, and the ground was torn up.

"Bless my tin whistle!" cried Mr. Damon. "What shall we do?"

For a moment no one knew what to say, then, as they looked at each
other in silence, a voice called:

"I say! What's up? What's the matter? Where are you all? Hey, Tom
Swift!"

"It's Mr. Whitford!" cried Tom. "He's just in time." Then he called
in louder tones:

"Here we are! In the woods by the trout brook! Come on over! Ned is
gone!"

There was a commotion in the bushes, the trampling of a horse, and a
moment later the government agent had joined the others.

"What's this?" he cried. "Ned gone? What do you mean?"

"He's missing. The smugglers have him, I'm afraid," explained Tom,
and then he gave the details.

"It certainly looks so," agreed Mr. Whitford. "His wearing of your
coat and cap fooled them. They must have spied out this camping
place, and they were in hiding. When they saw Ned coming to fish
they took him for you. Having failed in their attempt to damage the
airship, they decided to get her captain. Probably they thought that
if they did the Falcon could not be run, and they would be safe. But
they got the wrong man."

"Then we must get Ned back at once!" cried Tom. "Come on, we'll
start right away! Where do you think we can nab them, Mr. Whitford?"

"Wait a minute," suggested the government agent. He seemed in deep
thought, and paced up and down. It was clear that a great question
was confronting him.

"Well!" exclaimed Tom impatiently, "if we're going to get Ned we
must start at once."

"Perhaps it would be best not to try to rescue Ned at once," said
the custom house man after a pause.

"What!" cried Tom. "Not rescue Ned, my best chum?"

"Not at once," repeated Mr. Whitford. "Look here, Tom. I know it
seems a hard thing to say, but perhaps if we proceed on our original
plan, to hover over the border, and get on the trail of the
smugglers, chasing them to where they land the goods in the United
States, it will be best."

"And not rescue Ned?"

"We can best rescue him by catching the smugglers."

"Then you think--"

"That they have him with them--on board one of their airships very
likely. If we get THEM we'll have NED."

"Then we'll get 'em!" cried Tom with energy. "Come on back to the
Falcon. We'll get ready for a big flight!"

"Yes, I think they'll make a desperate effort to-night," went on the
agent. "They have a lot of goods ready to rush over the border, and
the fact that they tried to capture you, shows that they are ready
to pull off a big trick. I think if we can catch them to-night, it
will put an end to their operations, and, at the same time, bring
Ned back to us."

"Where do you think they will start to cross the line?" asked Tom.

"Near the place where we saw the man waving the flags. I have
information to the effect that they have a store of valuable goods
there. They imagine that they have the master of the airship, and
the owner of the great searchlight in their power, and that they can
not be molested, so they will be bold."

"But they'll soon find out that Ned isn't Tom," said Mr. Damon.

"No they won't! Not if it depends on Ned!" cried Tom. "Ned is game.
He'll soon get wise to the fact that they have taken him for me, and
he'll carry on the deception. None of the smugglers know me
intimately."

"Unless Andy Foger should be with them," suggested Mr. Damon.

"Oh, Ned can fool Andy any day. Come on, Mr. Whitford. We'll get the
smugglers to-night, spoil their game, and rescue Ned. Somehow, I
feel that we're going to succeed."

"Bless my tin dishpan!" cried Mr. Damon. "I hope we do."

Slowly, and with no very cheerful hearts, they filed away from the
scene of Ned's capture. In spite of the fact that they did not think
he would be harshly treated, they worried about him, Tom especially.

A hasty supper was eaten, and then, Tom, having seen that everything
aboard the ship was in good order, sent her aloft on what he hoped
would be the last chase after the smugglers. He decided to have Mr.
Damon steer the craft, as this was comparatively easy, once she was
started on her course, while the young inventor would manage the
searchlight, and start the automatic wizard camera, in case there
was anything to photograph.

Up and up went the Falcon, and soon she was making her way toward
the St. Regis Indian reservation, near which it was expected the
smugglers would start. Tom put out every light, as he wanted to
remain in darkness, until he could see a moving glow in the sky that
would tell him of a rival airship on the wing.

It did not take them long to reach the desired spot, and they
hovered in the air over it, every one with tense nerves, waiting for
what would happen next.

Tom did not want to show his searchlight just yet, as he feared the
gleam of it might stop the operations of the smugglers. So he waited
in darkness, approaching close to the earth in his noiseless ship
several times, and endeavoring to see something through the powerful
night glasses.

Suddenly, from below them, came a subdued throb and hum of a motor.

"There they are!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.

"I think so," agreed Tom. He looked below. He saw two flickering
lights, rather far apart. Mr. Whitford observed them at the same
moment.

"There are TWO of them!" exclaimed the agent, "TWO airships, Tom!"

"So I see. Koku, get out my electric rifle. We can't chase two, if
they separate, so I may have to stop one. It's best to be prepared.
I'm going to follow them in the dark, until they get over the
border, and then I'll turn on the light and the camera. Then it will
be a race to the finish."

The twin lights came nearer. Tom stood with his mouth to the signal
tube that communicated with Mr. Damon in the pilot house. From a
side window he watched the smugglers' airships. They shot upward and
then came on straight ahead, to pass to one side of him. Now they
were past. Tom started the wizard camera.

"Half speed ahead!" the young inventor signalled, and the Falcon
shot forward. The night race was on.




CHAPTER XXV

THE CAPTURE--CONCLUSION


"Do you think they know we are here, Tom?" asked Mr. Whitford, as he
stood at the side of the young inventor in the motor room.

"I don't believe so, as yet. They can't hear us, and, unless they
have pretty powerful glasses, they can't pick us up. We can soon
tell however, if they are aware that we are following them."

"Have you made any plan about capturing them?"

"No, I'm going to wait and see what turns up. I can't certainly
chase two of them, if they separate, and that's why I'm going to
cripple one if I have to."

"But won't that be dangerous? I don't want to see any of them
killed, or even hurt, though they are smugglers."

"And I don't want to hurt them, either. If worst comes to worst I'm
going to put a few holes in the wing planes of the smaller craft.
That will cause her to lose headway, and she can't keep up. They'll
have to volplane to earth, but, if they know anything at all about
airships, they can do that easily, and not get a bit hurt. That will
put them out of the race, and I can keep on after the big ship. I
fancy that carries the more valuable cargo."

"I presume so. Well, don't bring the one to earth until you get over
Uncle Sam's territory, and then maybe there will be a chance to
capture them, and the goods too."

"I will," promised Tom. They were still over Canadian territory, but
were rapidly approaching the border.

"I think I will send a wireless to my men in Logansville, to start
out and try to pick up the crippled airship after you disable her,"
decided Mr. Whitford, and as Tom agreed that this was a good plan,
the wireless was soon cracking away, the government agent being an
adept in its use.

"I've told them we'd give another signal to tell them, as nearly as
possible where we made them take to earth," he said to Tom, and the
young inventor nodded in agreement.

"Ned in them ship?" asked Koku, as he came back from the pilot house
to report that Mr. Damon was all right, and needed no help.

"Yes, I think Ned is in one of them," said Tom. "The big one most
likely. Poor Ned a prisoner! Well, I'll soon have him away from
them--if nothing happens," and Tom looked about the motor room, to
make sure that every piece of apparatus was working perfectly.

The two airships of the smugglers were hanging close together, and
it was evident that the larger one had to make her pace slow, so as
not to get ahead of the small craft. Tom followed on relentlessly,
not using half his speed, but creeping on silently in the darkness.

"We're over the United States now," said Mr. Whitford, after a
glance earthward through the binoculars. "Let 'em get a little
farther over the line before you pop 'em with your electric rifle,
Tom."

Our hero nodded, and looked out of a side window to note the
progress of the smugglers. For several miles the chase was thus kept
up, and then, suddenly the smaller craft was seen to swerve to one
side.

"They are separating!" cried Mr. Whitford, at the same time Mr.
Damon called through the tube from the pilot house:

"Which one shall I follow, Tom?"

"The big one," the youth answered. "I'll take care of the other!"
With a quick motion he flashed the current into the great
searchlight, and, calling to Mr. Whitford to hold it so that the
beams played on the small aeroplane, Tom leveled his wonderful
electric rifle at the big stretch of canvas. He pressed the lever, a
streak of blue flame shot out through an opened port, and, an
instant later, the small craft of the smugglers was seen to stagger
about, dipping to one side.

"There they come!" cried Mr. Whitford. "They're done for!"

"One shot more," said Tom grimly. "It won't hurt 'em!"

Again the deadly electric rifle sent out its wireless charge, and
the airship slowly fluttered toward the earth.

"They're volplaning down!" cried Tom. "That's the end of them. Now
to catch the other!"

"Take the lantern!" cried Mr. Whitford. "I'm going to send a
wireless to my men to get after this disabled craft."

Tom swung the beam of the searchlight forward and a moment later had
picked up the big aeroplane. It was some distance in advance, and
going like the wind. He heard the automatic camera clicking away.

"They speeded her up as soon as they saw what was on!" cried Tom.
"But we haven't begun to go yet!"

He signalled to Mr. Damon, who pulled over the accelerating lever
and instantly the Falcon responded. Now indeed the race was on in
earnest. The smugglers must have understood this, for they tried all
their tactics to throw the pursuing airship off the track. They
dodged and twisted, now going up, and now going down, and even
trying to turn back, but Tom headed them off. Ever the great beam of
light shone relentlessly on them, like some avenging eye. They could
not escape.

"Are we gaining?" cried Mr. Whitford.

"A little, and slowly," answered Tom. "They have a bigger load on
than when we chased them before, but still they have a speed almost
equal to ours. They must have a magnificent motor."

Faster and faster sped on the Falcon. The other craft kept ahead of
her, however, though Tom could see that, inch by inch, he was
overhauling her.

"Where do they seem to be heading for?" asked the government agent.

"Shopton, as near as I can make out," replied the youth. "They
probably want to get there ahead of us, and hide the goods. I must
prevent that. Mr. Damon is steering better than he ever did before."

Tom shifted the light to keep track of the smugglers, who had dipped
downward on a steep slant. Then they shot upward, but the Falcon was
after them.

The hours of the night passed. The chase was kept up. Try as the
smugglers did, they could not shake Tom off. Nearer and nearer he
crept. There was the gray dawn of morning in the sky, and Tom knew,
from the great speed they had traveled that they must be near
Shopton.

"They're slowing up. Tom!" suddenly cried Mr. Whitford who was
watching them through an open port.

"Yes, I guess they must have heated some of their bearings. Well,
here's where I capture them, if it's ever to be. Koku, let down the
grappling anchor."

"Are you really going to capture them, Tom?" asked the custom
officer.

"I'm going to try," was the answer, as Koku came back to say that
the anchor was dragging over the stern by a long rope.

"You work the light, Mr. Whitford," cried Tom. "I'm going to relieve
Mr. Damon in the pilot house. He can help you here. It will be all
over in another minute."

In the pilot house Tom grasped the steering levers. Then in a final
burst of speed he sent his craft above, and past that of the
smugglers.

Suddenly he felt a shock. It was the grappling anchor catching in
the rail of the other air craft. A shout of dismay arose from the
smugglers.

"You've got 'em! You've got 'em, Tom!" yelled Mr. Whitford.

"Bless my hasty pudding! So he has!" gasped Mr. Damon.

Changing the course of his craft Tom sent the Falcon toward the
earth, pulling the other aeroplane with him. Down and down he went,
and the frantic efforts of the smugglers to release themselves were
useless. They were pulled along by the powerful airship of our hero.

A few minutes later Tom picked out a good landing place in the dim
light of the breaking dawn, and went to earth. Jamming on the brakes
he leaped from the pilot house to the stern of his own craft,
catching up his electric rifle. The other airship, caught by the
grappling anchor at the end of a long rope, was just settling down,
those in her having the good sense to shut off their power, and
volplane when they found that they could not escape.

As the smugglers' craft touched the earth, several figures leaped
from her, and started to run away.

"Hold on!" cried Tom. "I've got you all covered with the electric
rifle! Don't move! Koku, you, and Mr. Whitford and Mr. Damon take
care of them. Tie 'em up."

"Bless my hat band!" cried the eccentric man. "What a great capture!
Where are we?"

"Not far from Shopton," answered Tom. "But look after the
prisoners."

There was a cry of astonishment from Mr. Whitford as he reached the
sullen occupants of the smugglers' craft.

"Here are the Fogers--father and son!" the agent called to Tom.
"They were in it after all. Great Scott! What a surprise. And here
are a lot of men whom I've been after for some time! Oh, Tom Swift,
this IS a capture."

"What right have you to use these high-handed methods on us?"
demanded Mr. Foger pompously.

"Yes, dad make 'em let us go; we haven't done anything!" snarled
Andy.

"I guess you won't go yet a while," said the agent. "I'll have a
look inside this craft. Keep 'em covered, Tom."

"I will. I guess Andy knows what this rifle can do. See if Ned is a
prisoner."

There was a few moments of waiting during which Koku and Mr. Damon
securely bound the prisoners. Then Mr. Whitford reappeared. He was
accompanied by some one.

"Hello, Tom!" called the latter. "I'm all right. Much obliged for
the rescue."

"Are you all right, Ned?" asked Tom, of his chum.

"Yes, except that they kept me gagged. The men who captured me took
me for you, and, after the Fogers found out the mistake, they
decided to keep me anyhow. Say, you've made a great haul."

And so it proved, for in the airship was a quantity of valuable
silks and laces, while on the persons of the smugglers, including
Mr. Foger, were several packets of diamonds. These were taken
possession of by Mr. Whitford, who also confiscated the bales and
packages.

Ned was soon aboard the Falcon, while the prisoners, securely tied
were laid in the cabin of their own craft with Koku to stand guard
over them. Mr. Damon went to Shopton, which was the nearest town,
for police aid, and soon the smugglers were safe in jail, though Mr.
Foger protested vigorously against going.

Ned explained how he had been pounced upon by two men when he was
fishing, and told how without a chance to warn his friends, he had
been gagged and bound and taken to the headquarters of the smugglers
in Canada, just over the border. They went by carriages. Then the
Fogers, who, it seemed, were hand in glove with the law violators,
saw him, and identified him. The smugglers had thought they were
capturing Tom.

"It was your coat and hat that did it, Tom," explained Ned. "I
fought against being taken away, but when I happened to think if
they took me for you it might be a trick against them. And it was.
The Fogers didn't discover the mistake until just before we started."

"They planned for a big shipment of goods last night and used two
airships. I don't know what became of the other."

"We've got her, and the men, too," interposed Mr. Whitford, as this
conversation was taking place several hours later in the Swift home.
"I just had a wire from my deputy. They got right after the damaged
airship, and reached her just as the men were hiding the goods, and
preparing to dismantle the craft. We have them all, thanks to you,
Tom!"

"And to think that the Fogers were in it all the while!" remarked
Tom. "They certainly fooled us."

"I'm not done with them yet," said Mr. Whitford. "I'm going to have
another look at their house, and the gardener's home."

"The Fogers were in dire straits, that's why they went in with the
smugglers," explained Ned. "Though they gagged me, they didn't stop
up my ears, and when they hid me in a little room on the airship, I
could hear them talking together. It seems that the smugglers put up
the money to buy the airships, and just happened to stumble on Andy
to run the machinery for them. His father helped, too. They shared
in the proceeds, and they must have made considerable, for the
smuggling has been going on for some time."

"Well, they'll lose all they made," declared the agent. Later he,
Tom and Ned made another inspection of the Foger premises. Down in
the cellar of the gardener's house they found, behind a cunningly
concealed door, a tunnel leading into the old mansion. Later it was
learned that the smugglers had been in the habit of bringing goods
across the border in airships, landing them in a lonely stretch of
woods outside of Shopton, and later bringing them by wagon to the
mansion.

Inside there, in some secret rooms that had been constructed off of
the main apartments, the goods would be unpacked, put in different
boxes, carried through the tunnel to the gardener's house, and
thence shipped as "old furniture" to various unscrupulous agents who
disposed of them.

The hiring of Mr. Dillon had been only a blind. Later the smugglers,
in the guise of carpenters, made the desired changes. So cunningly
had the opening of the tunnel in the cellar of the gardener's house
been concealed, that it was only discovered after a most careful
search.

There is little more to tell. With the capture of the two airships,
an end was put to the smuggling operations, especially since nearly
all the gang was captured. A few, those who brought the goods up the
St. Lawrence, from the ocean steamers, managed to escape, but they
had to go into hiding.

The goods captured proved very valuable, and partly made up to Uncle
Sam's treasury the losses sustained. Tom was offered a big reward,
but would not take it, accepting only money for his expenses, and
requesting that the reward be divided among the agents of Mr.
Whitford's staff, who needed it more than Tom did.

There was no difficulty about convicting the prisoners, including
the Fogers, for Tom's wizard camera had taken pictures of the chase
and capture, and the men were easily identified. Mr. Period was
quite delighted with the roll of films that Tom gave him. Some of
the smugglers were sent to prison for long terms, and others,
including Andy and his father, had to pay heavy fines.

"Well, Tom Swift, I can't thank you enough," said Mr. Whitford, one
day as he called to pay the young inventor a visit. "I'm ordered to
the Pacific coast and I may have to send for you with your airship,
and great searchlight."

"I don't believe I'll come," laughed the lad. "I'm going to take a
long rest and settle down."

"He's going to get married!" exclaimed Ned, taking care to get
behind a chair.

"If Mr. Tom marry, he keep Koku for servant?" asked the giant
anxiously.

"Oh, I'm not going to get married, just yet, Koku!" exclaimed Tom,
who was blushing furiously. "I'm going to invent something new."

"Bless my fountain pen!" cried Mr. Damon.

"Oh, Tom, it seems good to have you home again," said aged Mr. Swift
softly.

"Dat's what it do!" added Eradicate. "Boomerang hab been monstrous
lonely sence yo'-all been gone, Massa Tom."

"Well, I'm going to stay home--for a while," said Tom. And thus,
surrounded as he is by his friends and relatives, we will take leave
of Tom Swift.

THE END





TOM SWIFT AND HIS GIANT CANNON

or

The Longest Shots on Record


by

Victor Appleton



CONTENTS

CHAPTER

      I  ON A LIVE WIRE
     II  "WE'LL TAKE A CHANCE!"
    III  PLANNING A BIG GUN
     IV  KOKU'S BRAVE ACT
      V  OFF TO SANDY HOOK
     VI  TESTING THE WALLER GUN
    VII  THE IMPOSSIBLE OCCURS
   VIII  A BIG PROBLEM
     IX  THE NEW POWDER
      X  SOMETHING WRONG
     XI  FAILURE AND SUCCESS
    XII  A POWERFUL BLAST
   XIII  CASTING THE CANNON
    XIV  A NIGHT INTRUDER
     XV  READY FOR THE TEST
    XVI  A WARNING
   XVII  THE BURSTING DAM
  XVIII  THE DOPED POWDER
    XIX  BLOWING DOWN THE BARRIER
     XX  THE GOVERNMENT ACCEPTS
    XXI  OFF FOR PANAMA
   XXII  AT GATUN LOCKS
  XXIII  NEWS OF THE MINE
   XXIV  THE LONGEST SHOT
    XXV  THE LONG-LOST MINE




TOM SWIFT AND HIS GIANT CANNON



CHAPTER I

ON A LIVE WIRE


"Now, see here, Mr. Swift, you may think it all a sort of dream, and
imagine that I don't know what I'm talking about; but I do! If you'll
consent to finance this expedition to the extent of, say, ten thousand
dollars, I'll practically guarantee to give you back five times that
sum."

"I don't know, Alec, I don't know," slowly responded the aged inventor.
"I've heard those stories before, and in my experience nothing ever
came of them. Buried treasure, and lost vessels filled with gold, are
all well and good, but hunting for an opal mine on some little-heard-of
island goes them one better."

"Then you don't feel like backing me up in this matter, Mr. Swift?"

"No, Alec, I can't say I do. Why, just stop and think for a minute.
You're asking me to put ten thousand dollars into a company, to fit out
an expedition to go to this island--somewhere down near Panama, you say
it is--and try to locate the lost mine from which, some centuries ago,
opals and other precious stones came. It doesn't seem reasonable."

"But I'm sure I can find the mine, Mr. Swift!" persisted Alec Peterson,
who was almost as elderly a man as the one he addressed. "I have the
old documents that tell how rich the mine once was, how the old Mexican
rulers used to get their opals from it, and how all trace of it was
lost in the last century. I have all the landmarks down pat, and I'm
sure I can find it. Come on now, take a chance. Put in this ten
thousand dollars. I can manage the rest. You'll get back more than five
times your investment."

"If you find the mine--yes."

"I tell you I will find it! Come now, Mr. Swift," and the visitor's
voice was very pleading, "you and your son Tom have made a fortune for
yourselves out of your different inventions.  Be generous, and lend me
this ten thousand dollars."

Mr. Swift shook his head.

"I've heard you talk the same way before, Alec," he replied.  "None of
your schemes ever amounted to anything. You've been a fortune-hunter
all your life, nearly; and what have you gotten out of it? Just a bare
living."

"That's right, Mr. Swift, but I've had bad luck. I did find the lost
gold mine I went after some years ago, you remember."

"Yes, only to lose it because the missing heirs turned up, and took it
away from you. You could have made more at straight mining in the time
you spent on that scheme."

"Yes, I suppose I could; but this is going to be a success--I feel it
in my bones."

"That's what you say, every time, Alec. No, I don't believe I want to
go into this thing."

"Oh, come--do! For the sake of old times. Don't you recall how you and
I used to prospect together out in the gold country; how we shared our
failures and successes?"

"Yes, I remember that, Alec. Mighty few successes we had, though, in
those days."

"But now you've struck it rich, pardner," went on the pleader.  "Help
me out in this scheme--do!"

"No, Alec. I'd rather give you three or four thousand dollars for
yourself, if you'd settle down to some steady work, instead of chasing
all over the country after visionary fortunes. You're getting too old
to do that."

"Well, it's a fact I'm no longer young. But I'm afraid I'm too old to
settle down. You can't teach an old dog new tricks, pardner. This is my
life, and I'll have to live it until I pass out. Well, if you won't,
you won't, I suppose. By the way, where is Tom? I'd like to see him
before I go back. He's a mighty fine boy."

"That's what he is!" broke in a new voice. "Bless my overshoes, but he
is a smart lad! A wonderful lad, that's what! Why, bless my necktie,
there isn't anything he can't invent; from a button-hook to a
battleship! Wonderful boy--that's what!"

"I guess Tom's ears would burn if he could hear your praises, Mr.
Damon," laughed Mr. Swift. "Don't spoil him."

"Spoil Tom Swift? You couldn't do it in a hundred years!" cried Mr.
Damon, enthusiastically. "Bless my topknot! Not in a thousand
years--no, sir!"

"But where is he?" asked Mr. Peterson, who was evidently unused to the
extravagant manner of Mr. Damon.

"There he goes now!" exclaimed the gentleman who frequently blessed
himself, some article of his apparel, or some other object. "There he
goes now, flying over the house in that Humming Bird airship of his. He
said he was going to try out a new magneto he'd invented, and it seems
to be working all right. He said he wasn't going to take much of a
flight, and I guess he'll soon be back. Look at him! Isn't he a great
one, though!"

"He certainly is," agreed Mr. Peterson, as he and Mr. Swift went to the
window, from which Mr. Damon had caught a glimpse of the youthful
Inventor in his airship. "A great lad. I wish he could come on this
mine-hunt with me, though I'd never consent to go in an airship.
They're too risky for an old man like me."

"They're as safe as a church when Tom Swift runs them!" declared Mr.
Damon. "I'm no boy, but I'd go anywhere with Tom."

"I'm afraid you wouldn't get Tom to go with you, Alec," went on Mr.
Swift, as he resumed his chair, the young inventor in his airship
having passed out of sight. "He's busy on some new invention now, I
believe. I think I heard him say something about a new rifle."

"Cannon it was, Mr. Swift," said Mr. Damon. "Tom has an idea that he
can make the biggest cannon in the world; but it's only an idea yet."

"Well, then I guess there's no hope of my interesting him in my opal
mine," said the fortune-hunter, with rather a disappointed smile. "Nor
you either, Mr. Swift."

"No, Alec, I'm afraid not. As I said, I'd rather give you outright
three or four thousand dollars, if you wanted it, provided that you
used it for your own personal needs, and promised not to sink it in
some visionary search."

Mr. Peterson shook his head.

"I'm not actually in want," he said, "and I couldn't accept a gift of
money, Mr. Swift. This is a straight business proposition."

"Not much straight business in hunting for a mine that's been lost for
over a century," replied the aged inventor, with a glance at Mr. Damon,
who was still at the window, watching for a glimpse of Tom on his
return trip in the air craft.

"If Tom would go, I'd trail along," said the odd man. "We haven't done
anything worth speaking of since he used his great searchlight to
detect the smugglers. But I don't believe he'll go. That mining
proposition sounds good."

"It is good!" cried Mr. Peterson, with fervor, hoping he had found a
new "prospect" in Mr. Damon.

"But not business-good," declared Mr. Swift, and for some time the
three argued the matter, Mr. Swift continuing to shake his head.

Suddenly into the room there ran an aged colored man, much excited.

"Fo' de land sakes!" he cried. "Somebody oughter go out an' help Massa
Tom!"

"Why, what's the matter, Eradicate?" asked Mr. Swift, leaping to his
feet, an example followed by the other two men. "What has happened to
my son?"

"I dunno, Massa Swift, but I looked up jest now, an' dere he be, in dat
air-contraption ob his'n he calls de Hummin' Burd.  He's ketched up
fast on de balloon shed roof, an' dere he's hangin' wif sparks an'
flames a-shootin' outer de airship suffin' scandalous! It's jest
spittin' fire, dat's what it's a-doin', an' ef somebody don't do
suffin' fo' Massa Tom mighty quick, dere ain't gwin t' be any Massa
Tom; now dat's what I'se a-tellin' you!"

"Bless my shoe buttons!" gasped Mr. Damon. "Come on out, everybody!
We've got to help Tom!"

"Yes!" assented Mr. Swift. "Call someone on the telephone! Get a
doctor! Maybe he's shocked! Where's Koku, the giant? Maybe he can help!"

"Now doan't yo' go t' gittin' all excited-laik," objected Eradicate
Sampson, the aged colored man. "Remember yo' all has got a weak heart,
Massa Swift!"

"I know it; but I must save my son. Hurry!"

Mr. Swift ran from the room, followed by Mr. Damon and Mr. Peterson,
while Eradicate trailed after them as fast as his tottering limbs would
carry him, murmuring to himself.

"There he is!" cried Mr. Damon, as he caught sight of the young
inventor in his airship, in a position of peril. Truly it was as
Eradicate had said. Caught on the slope of the roof of his big balloon
shed, Tom Swift was in great danger.

From his airship there shot dazzling sparks, and streamers of green and
violet fire. There was a snapping, cracking sound that could be heard
above the whir of the craft's propellers, for the motor was still
running.

"Oh, Tom! Tom! What is it? What has happened?" cried his father.

"Keep back! Don't come too close!" yelled the young inventor, as he
clung to the seat of the aeroplane, that was tilted at a dangerous
angle. "Keep away!"

"What's the matter?" demanded Mr. Damon. "Bless my pocket comb--what is
it?"

"A live wire!" answered Tom. "I'm caught in a live wire! The trailer
attached to the wireless outfit on my airship is crossed with the wire
from the power plant. There's a short circuit somewhere. Don't come too
close, for it may burn through any second and drop down. Then it will
twist about like a snake!"

"Land ob massy!" cried Eradicate.

"What can we do to help you?" called Mr. Swift. "Shall I run and shut
off the power?" for in the shop where Tom did most of his inventive
work there was a powerful dynamo, and it was on one of the wires
extending from it, that brought current into the house, that the craft
had caught.

"Yes, shut it off if you can!" Tom shouted back. "But be careful. Don't
get shocked! Wow! I got a touch of it myself that time!" and he could
be seen to writhe in his seat.

"Oh, hurry! hurry! Find Koku!" cried Mr. Swift to Mr. Damon, who had
started for the power house on the run.

The sparks and lances of fire seemed to increase around the young
inventor. The airship could be seen to slip slowly down the sloping
roof.

"Land ob massy! He am suah gwine t' fall!" yelled Eradicate.

"Oh, he'll never get that current shut off in time!" murmured Mr.
Swift, as he started after Mr. Damon.

"Wait! I think I have a plan!" called Mr. Peterson. "I think I can save
Tom!"

He did not waste further time in talk, but, running to a nearby shed,
he got a long ladder that he saw standing under it. With this over his
shoulder he retraced his steps to the balloon hangar and placed the
ladder against the side. Then he started to climb up.

"What are you going to do?" yelled Tom, leaning over from his seat to
watch the elderly fortune-hunter.

"I'm going to cut that wire!" was the answer.

"Don't! If you touch it you'll be shocked to death! I may be able to
get out of here. So far I've only had light shocks, but the insulation
is burning out of my magneto, and that will soon stop. When it does I
can't run the motor, and--"

"I'm going to cut that wire!" again shouted Mr. Peterson.

"But you can't, without pliers and rubber gloves!" yelled Tom.  "Keep
away, I tell you!"

The man on the ladder hesitated. Evidently he had not thought of the
necessity of protecting his hands by rubber covering, in order that the
electricity might be made harmless. He backed down to the ground.

"I saw a pair of old gloves in the shed!" he cried. "I'll get
them--they look like rubber."

"They are!" cried Tom, remembering now that he had been putting up a
new wire that day, and had left his rubber gloves there.  "But you
haven't any pliers!" the lad went. "How can you cut wire without them?
There's a pair in the shop, but--"

"Heah dey be! Heah dey be!" cried Eradicate, as he produced a heavy
pair from his pocket. "I--I couldn't find de can-opener fo' Mrs.
Baggert, an' I jest got yo' pliers, Massa Tom. Oh, how glad I is dat I
did. Here's de pincers, Massa Peterson."

He handed them to the fortune-hunter, who came running back with the
rubber gloves. Mr. Damon was no more than half way to the power house,
which was quite a distance from the Swift homestead. Meanwhile Tom's
airship was slipping more and more, and a thick, pungent smoke now
surrounded it, coming from the burning insulation. The sparks and
electrical flames were worse than ever.

"Just a moment now, and I'll have you safe!" cried the fortune-hunter,
as he again mounted the ladder. Luckily the charged wire was near
enough to be reached by going nearly to the top of the ladder.

Holding the pincers in his rubber-gloved hands, the old man quickly
snipped the wire. There was a flash of sparks as the copper conductor
was severed, and then the shower of sparks about Tom's airship ceased.

In another second he had turned on full power, the propellers whizzed
with the quickness of light, and he rose in the air, off the shed roof,
the live wire no longer entangling him. Then he made a short circuit of
the work-shop yard, and came to the ground safely a little distance
from the balloon hangar.

"Saved! Tom is saved!" cried Mr. Swift, who had seen the act of Mr.
Peterson from a distance. "He saved my boy's life!"

"Thanks, Mr. Peterson!" exclaimed the young inventor, as he left his
seat and walked up to the fortune-hunter. "You certainly did me a good
turn then. It was touch and go! I couldn't have stayed there many
seconds longer. Next time I'll know better than to fly with a wireless
trailer over a live conductor," and he held out his hand to Mr.
Peterson.

"I'm glad I could help you, Tom," spoke the other, warmly. "I was
afraid that if you had to wait until they shut off the power it would
be too late."

"It would--it would--er--I feel--I--"

Tom's voice trailed off into a whisper and he swayed on his feet.

"Cotch him!" cried Eradicate. "Cotch him! Massa Tom's hurt!" and only
just in time did Mr. Peterson clutch the young inventor in his arms.
For Tom, white of face, had fallen back in a dead faint.




CHAPTER II

"WE'LL TAKE A CHANCE!"


"Carry him into the house!" cried Mr. Swift, as he came running to
where Mr. Peterson was loosening Tom's collar.

"Git a doctor!" murmured Eradicate. "Call someone on de tellifoam! Git
fo' doctors!"

"We must get him into the house first," declared Mr. Damon, who, seeing
that Tom was off the shed roof, had stopped mid-way to the powerhouse,
and retraced his steps. "Let's carry him into the house. Bless my
pocketbook! but he must have been shocked worse than he thought."

They lifted the inert form of our hero and walked toward the mansion
with him, Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper, standing in the doorway in
dismay, uncertain what to do.

And while Tom is being cared for I will take just a moment to tell my
new readers something more about him and his inventions, as they have
been related in the previous books of this series.

The first volume was called "Tom Swift and His Motor-Cycle," and this
machine was the means of his becoming acquainted with Mr. Wakefield
Damon, the odd gentleman who so often blessed things. On his
motor-cycle Tom had many adventures.

The lad was of an inventive mind, as was his father, and in the
succeeding books of the series, which you will find named in detail
elsewhere, I related how Tom got a motorboat, made an airship, and
later a submarine, in all of which craft he had strenuous times and
adventures.

His electric runabout was quite the fastest car on the road, and when
he sent his wonderful wireless message he saved himself and others from
Earthquake Island. He solved the secret of the diamond makers, and,
though he lost a fine balloon in the caves of ice, he soon had another
air craft--a regular sky-racer. His electric rifle saved a party from
the red pygmies in Elephant Land, and in his air glider he found the
platinum treasure. With his wizard camera, Tom took wonderful moving
pictures, and in the volume immediately preceding this present one,
called "Tom Swift and His Great Searchlight," I had the pleasure of
telling you how the lad captured the smugglers who were working against
Uncle Sam over the border.

Tom, as you will see, had, with the help of his father, perfected many
wonderful inventions. The lad lived with his aged parent, his mother
being dead, in the village of Shopton, in New York State.

While the house, which was presided over by the motherly Mrs. Baggert,
was large, it was almost lost now amid the many buildings surrounding
it, from balloon and airship hangars, to shops where varied work was
carried on. For Tom did most of his labor himself, of course with men
to help him at the heavier tasks. Occasionally he had to call on
outside shops.

In the household, beside his father, himself and Mrs. Baggert, was
Eradicate Sampson, an aged colored man-of-all-work, who said he was
called "Eradicate" because he eradicated dirt. There was also Koku, a
veritable giant, one of two brothers whom Tom had brought with him from
Giant Land, when he escaped from captivity there, as related in the
book of that name.

Mr. Damon was, with Ned Newton, Tom's chum, the warmest friend of the
family, and was often at Tom's home, coming from the neighboring town
of Waterford, where he lived.

Tom had been back some time now from working for the government in
detecting the smugglers, but, as you may well suppose, he had not been
idle. Inventing a number of small things, including useful articles for
the house, was a sort of recreation for him, but his mind was busy on
one great scheme, which I will tell you about in due time.

Among other things he had just perfected a new style of magneto for one
of his airships. The magneto, as you know, is a sort of small dynamo,
that supplies the necessary spark to the cylinder, to explode the
mixture of air and gasoline vapor. He was trying out this magneto in
the Humming Bird when the accident I have related in the first chapter
occurred.

"There! He's coming to!" exclaimed Mrs. Baggert, as she leaned over
Tom, who was stretched out on the sofa in the library. "Give him
another smell of this ammonia," she went on, handing the bottle to Mr.
Swift.

"No--no," faintly murmured Tom, opening his eyes. "I--I've had enough
of that, if you please! I'm all right."

"Are you sure, Tom?" asked his father. "Aren't you hurt anywhere?"

"Not a bit, Dad! It was foolish of me to go off that way; but I
couldn't seem to help it. It all got black in front of me, and--well, I
just keeled over."

"I should say you did," spoke Mr. Peterson.

"An' ef he hadn't a-been there to cotch yo' all," put in Eradicate,
"yo' all suah would hab hit de ground mighty hard."

"That's two services he did for me today," said Tom, as he managed to
sit up. "Cutting that wire--well, it saved my life, that's certain."

"I believe you, Tom," said Mr. Swift, solemnly, and he held out his
hand to his old mining partner.

"Do you need the doctor?" asked Mr. Damon, who was at the telephone.
"He says he'll come right over--I can get him in Tom's electric
runabout, if you say so. He's on the wire now."

"No, I don't need him," replied the young inventor. "Thank him just the
same. It was only an ordinary faint, caused by the slight electrical
shocks, and by getting a bit nervous, I guess.  I'm all right--see,"
and he proved it by standing up.

"He's all right--don't come, doctor," said Mr. Damon into the
telephone. "Bless my keyring!" he exclaimed, "but that was a strenuous
time!"

"I've been in some tight places before," went on Tom, as he sat down in
an easy chair, "and I've had any number of shocks when I've been
experimenting, but this was a sort of double combination, and it sure
had me guessing. But I'm feeling better every minute."

"A cup of hot tea will do you good," said motherly Mrs. Baggert, as she
bustled out of the room. "I'll make it for you."

"You cut that wire as neatly as any lineman could," went on Tom,
glancing from Mr. Peterson out of the window to where one of his
workmen was repairing the break. "When I flew over it in my airship I
never gave a thought to the trailer from my wireless outfit. The first
I knew I was caught back, and then pulled down to the balloon shed
roof, for I tilted the deflecting rudder by mistake.

"But, Mr. Peterson," Tom went on, "I haven't seen you in some time.
Anything new on, that brings you here?" for the fortune-hunter had
called at the Swift house after Tom had gone out to the shop to get his
airship ready for the flight to try the magneto.

"Well, Tom, I have something rather new on," replied Mr. Peterson. "I
hoped to interest your father in it, but he doesn't seem to care to
take a chance. It's a lost opal mine on a little-known island in the
Caribbean Sea not far from the city of Colon.  I say not far--by that I
mean about twenty miles. But your father doesn't want to invest, say,
ten thousand dollars in it, though I can almost guarantee that he'll
get five times that sum back. So, as long as he doesn't feel that he
can help me out, I guess I'd better be traveling on."

"Hold on! Wait a minute. Don't be in a hurry," said Mr. Swift.

Mr. Peterson was an old friend, and when he and Mr. Swift were young
men they had prospected and grub-staked together. But Mr. Swift soon
gave that up to devote his time to his inventions, while Mr. Peterson
became a sort of rolling stone.

He was a good man, but somewhat visionary, and a bit inclined to "take
chances"--such as looking for lost treasure--rather than to devote
himself to some steady employment. The result was that he led rather a
precarious life, though never being actually in want.

"No, pardner," he said to Mr. Swift. "It's kind of you to ask me to
stay; but this mine business has got a grip on me. I want to try it
out. If you won't finance the project someone else may.  I'll say
good-bye, and--"

"Now just a minute," said Mr. Swift. "It's true, Alec, I had about made
up my mind not to go into this thing, when this accident happened to
Tom. Now you practically saved his life.  You--"

"Oh, pshaw! I only acted on the spur of the moment. Anyone could have
done what I did," protested the fortune-hunter.

"Oh, but you did it!" insisted Mr. Swift, "and you did it in the nick
of time. Now I wouldn't for a moment think of offering you a reward for
saving my son's life. But I do feel mighty friendly toward you--not
that I didn't before--but I do want to help you. Alec, I will go into
this business with you. We'll take a chance! I'll invest ten thousand
dollars, and I'm not so awful worried about getting it back,
either--though I don't believe in throwing money away."

"You won't throw it away in this case!" declared Mr. Peterson, eagerly.
"I'm sure to find that mine; but it will take a little capital to work
it. That's what I need--capital!"

"Well, I'll supply it to the extent of ten thousand dollars," said Mr.
Swift. "Tom, what do you think of it? Am I foolish or not?"

"Not a bit of it, Dad!" cried the young man, who was now himself again.
"I'm glad you took that chance, for, if you hadn't--well, I would have
supplied the money myself--that's all," and he smiled at the
fortune-hunter.




CHAPTER III

PLANNING A BIG GUN


"BUT, Tom, I don't see how in the world you can ever hope to make a
bigger gun than that."

"I think it can be done, Ned," was the quiet answer of the young
inventor. He looked up from some drawings on the table in the office of
one of his shops. "Now I'll just show you--"

"Hold on, Tom. You know I have a very poor head for figures, even if I
do help you out once in a while on some of your work.  Skip the
technical details, and give me the main facts."

The two young men--Ned Newton being Tom's special chum--were talking
together over Tom's latest scheme.

It was several days after Tom's accident in the airship, when he had
been saved by the prompt action of Mr. Peterson. That fortune-hunter,
once he had the promise of Mr. Swift to invest in his somewhat
visionary plan of locating a lost opal mine near the Panama Canal, had
left the Swift homestead to arrange for fitting out the expedition of
discovery. He had tried to prevail on Tom to accompany him, and,
failing in that, tried to work on Mr. Damon.

"Bless my watch chain!" exclaimed that odd gentleman. "I would like to
go with you first rate. But I'm so busy--so very busy--that I can't
think of it. I have simply neglected all my affairs, chasing around the
country with Tom Swift. But if Tom goes I--ahem! I think perhaps I
could manage it--ahem!"

"I thought you were busy," laughed Tom.

"Oh, well, perhaps I could get a few weeks off. But I'm not going--no,
bless my check book, I must get back to business!"

But as Mr. Damon was a retired gentleman of wealth, his "business" was
more or less of a joke among his friends.

So then, a few days after the departure of Mr. Peterson, Tom and Ned
sat in the former's office, discussing the young inventor's latest
scheme.

"How big is the biggest gun ever made, Tom?" asked his chum. "I mean in
feet, in inches, or in muzzle diameter, however they are measured."

"Well," began Tom, "of course some nation may, in secret, be making a
bigger gun than any I have ever heard of. As far as I know, however,
the largest one ever made for the United States was a sixteen-inch
rifled cannon--that is, it was sixteen inches across at the muzzle, and
I forget just how long. It weighed many tons, however, and it now lies,
or did a few years ago, in a ditch at the Sandy Hook proving grounds.
It was a failure."

"And yet you are figuring on making a cannon with a muzzle thirty
inches across--almost a yard--and fifty feet long and to weigh--"

"No one can tell exactly how much it will weigh," interrupted Tom. "And
I'm not altogether certain about the muzzle measurement, nor of the
length. It's sort of in the air at present. Only I don't see why a
larger gun than any that has yet been made, can't be constructed."

"If anybody can invent one, you can, Tom Swift!" exclaimed Ned,
admiringly.

"You flatter me!" exclaimed his chum, with a mock bow.

"But what good will it be?" went on Ned. "Making big guns doesn't help
any in war, that I can see."

"Ned!" exclaimed Tom, "you don't look far enough ahead. Now here's my
scheme in a nutshell. You know what Uncle Sam is doing down in his big
ditch; don't you?"

"You mean digging the Panama Canal?"

Yes, the greatest engineering feat of centuries. It is going to make a
big change in the whole world, and the United States is going to
become--if she is not already--a world-power. Now that canal has to be
protected--I mean against the possibility of war. For, though it may
never come, and the chances are it never will, still it may.

"Uncle Sam has to be ready for it. There never was a more true saying
than 'in time of peace prepare for war.' Preparing for war is, in my
opinion, the best way not to have one.

"Once the Panama Canal is in operation, and the world-changes
incidental to it have been made, if it should pass into the hands of
some foreign country--as it very possibly might do--the United States
would not only be the laughing-stock of the world, but she would lose
the high place she holds.

"Now, then, to protect the canal, several things are necessary.  Among
them are big guns--cannon that can shoot a long distance--for if a
foreign nation should send some of their new dreadnaughts over
here--vessels with guns that can shoot many miles--where would the
canal be once a bombardment was opened? It would be ruined in a
day--the immense lock-gates would be destroyed. And, not only from the
guns aboard ships would there be danger, but from siege cannon planted
in Costa Rica, or some South American country below the canal zone.

"Now, to protect the canal against such an attack we need guns that can
shoot farther, straighter and more powerfully than any at present in
use, and we've got to have the most powerful explosive. In other words,
we've got to beat the biggest guns that are now in existence. And I'm
going to do it, Ned!"

"You are?"

"Yes, I'm going to invent a cannon that will make the longest shots on
record. I'm going to make a world-beater gun; or, rather, I'm going to
invent it, and have it made, for I guess it would tax this place to the
limit.

"I've been thinking of this for some time, Ned. I've been puttering
around inventing new magnetos, potato-parers and the like, but this is
my latest hobby. The Panama Canal is a big thing--one of the biggest
things in the world. We need the biggest guns in the world to protect
it.

"And, listen: Uncle Sam thinks the same way. I understand that the best
men in the service--at West Point, Annapolis and Sandy Hook, as well as
elsewhere--are working in the interest of the United States to perfect
a bigger cannon than any ever before made. In fact, one has just been
constructed, and is going to be tried at the Sandy Hook proving grounds
soon. I'm going to see the test if I can.

"And here's another thing. Foreign nations are trying to steal Uncle
Sam's secrets. If this country gets a big cannon, some other nation
will want a bigger one. It's a constant warfare. I'm going to devote my
talents--such as they are--to Uncle Sam. I'm going to make the biggest
cannon in the world--the one that will shoot the farthest and knock
into smithereens all the other big guns. That's the only way to protect
the canal. Do you understand, Ned?"

"Somewhat, Tom. Since I gave up my place in the bank, and became a sort
of handy-lad for you, I know more about your work.  But isn't it going
to be dangerous to make a cannon like that?"

"Well, in a way, yes, Ned. But we've got to take chances, just as
father did when he invested ten thousand dollars in that opal mine.
He'll never see his money again."

"Don't you think so?"

"No, Ned."

"And when do you expect to start on your gun, Tom?"

"Right away. I'm making some plans now. I'm going down to Sandy Hook
and witness the test of this new big cannon. You can come along, if you
like."

"Well, I sure will like. When is it?"

"Oh, in about a week. I'll have to look--"

"'Scuse me, Massa Tom," broke in Eradicate, as he put his head through
the half-opened office door. "'Scuse me, but dere's a express gen'men
outside, wif his auto truck, an' he's got some packages fo' yo' all,
marked 'dangerous--explosive--an' keep away fom de fire.' He want t'
know what he all gwine t' do wif 'em, Massa Tom?"

"Do with 'em? Oh, I guess it's that new giant powder I sent for. Why,
Eradicate, have him bring 'em right in here."

"Yais, sah, Massa Tom. Dat's all right; but he jest can't bring 'em
in," and Eradicate looked behind him somewhat apprehensively.

"Can't bring 'em in? Why not, I'd like to know?" exclaimed Tom.  "He's
paid for it."

"'Scuse me, Massa Tom," said the colored man, "but dat express gen'men
can't bring dem explosive powder boxes in heah, 'case as how his
autermobile hab done ketched fire an' he cain't get near it nohow.
Dat's why, Massa Tom!"

"Caesar's ghost!" yelled the young inventor. "The auto on fire, and
that powder in it! Come on Ned!" and he made a rush for the door.




CHAPTER IV

KOKU'S BRAVE ACT


"Tom! Tom!" cried Ned, as he watched the disappearing figure of his
chum. "Come back here! If there's going to be an explosion we ought to
run out of the back door!"

"I'm not running away!" flashed back Tom. "I'm going to get that powder
out of the auto before it goes up! If it does we'll be blown to kingdom
come, back door or front door! Come on!"

"Bacon and eggs!" yelled Ned. "He's running an awful risk! But I can't
let him go alone! I guess we're in for it!"

Then he, too, rushed from the office toward the front of the shop,
before which, in a sort of private road, stood the blazing auto. And
Ned, who had now lost sight of Tom, because of our hero having turned a
corner in the corridor, heard excited shouts coming from the seat of
trouble.

"If that's some new kind of powder Tom's sent for, to test for his new
big gun, and it goes up," Ned said to himself, as he rushed on, "this
place will be blown to smithereens. All Tom's valuable machinery and
patents will be ruined!"

Ned had now reached the front door of the shop. He had a glimpse of the
burning auto--a small express truck, well loaded with various packages.
And, through the smoke, which from the odor must have been caused by
burning gasoline, Ned could see several boxes marked in red letters:


DANGEROUS            EXPLOSIVE


     KEEP AWAY FROM FIRE


"Keep away from fire!" murmured the panting lad. "If they can get any
nearer fire I don't see how."

"Oh, mah golly!" gasped Eradicate, who had lumbered on behind Ned. "Oh,
mah golly! Oh, good land ob massy! Look at Massa Tom!"

"I've got to help him!" cried Ned, for he saw that his chum had rushed
to the rear of the auto, and was endeavoring to drag one of the powder
boxes across the lowered tail-board. Tom was straining and tugging at
it, but did not seem able to move the case. It was heavy, as Ned
learned later, and was also held down by the weight of other express
packages on top of it.

"Oh, mah golly!" cried Eradicate. "Git some watah, somebody, an' put
out dat fire!"

"No--no water!" yelled Tom, who heard him. "Water will only make it
worse--it'll scatter the blazing gasoline. The feed pipe from the tank
must have burst. Throw on sand--sand is the only thing to use!"

"I'll git a shubble!" cried Eradicate. "I'll git a sand-shubble!" and
he tottered off.

"Wait, Tom, I'll give you a hand!" cried Ned, as he saw his chum step
away from the end of the auto for a moment, as a burst of flame, and
choking smoke, driven by the wind, was blown almost in his face. "I'll
help you!"

"We've got to be lively, then, Ned!" gasped Tom. "This is getting
hotter every minute! Where's that Koku? He could yank these boxes out
in a jiffy!"

And indeed a giant's strength was needed at that moment.

Ned glanced around to see if he could catch a glimpse of the big man
whom Tom had brought from Giant Land, but Koku was not in sight.

"Let's have another try now, Ned!" suggested Tom, when a shift in the
wind left the rear of the auto comparatively free from smoke and flame.

"You fellows had better skip!" cried the expressman, who had been
throwing light packages off his vehicle from in front, where, as yet,
there was no fire. "That powder'll go up in another minute. Some of the
boxes are beginning to catch now!" he yelled. "Look out!"

"That's right!" shouted Tom, as he saw that the edge of one of the
wooden cases containing the powder was blazing slightly.  "Lively, Ned!"

Ned held back only for a second. Then, realizing that the time to act
was now or never, and that even if he ran he could hardly save himself,
he advanced to Tom's side. The smoke was choking and stifling them, and
the flames, coming from beneath the auto truck, made them gasp for
breath.

Together Tom and Ned tugged at the nearest case of powder--the one that
was ablaze.

"We--we can't budge it!" panted Tom.

"It--it's caught somewhere," added Ned. "Oh, if Koku were only here!"

There was a sound behind the lads. A voice exclaimed:

"Master want shovel, so Eradicate say--here it is!"

They turned and saw a big, powerful man, with a simple, child-like
face, standing calmly looking at the burning auto.

"Koku!" cried Tom. "Quick! Never mind the shovel! Get those powder
boxes out of that cart before they go up! Yank 'em out!  They're too
much for Ned and me! Quick!"

"Oh, of a courseness I will so do!" said Koku, to whom, even yet, the
English language was somewhat of a mystery. He dropped the shovel, and,
heedless of the thick smoke from the burning gasoline, reached over and
took hold of the nearest box. It seemed as though he pulled it from the
auto truck as easily as Tom might have lifted a cork.

Then, carrying the box, which was now burning quite fiercely on one
corner, over toward Tom and Ned, who had moved back, the giant asked:

"What you want of him, Master?"

"Put it down, Koku, and get out all the others! Lively, now, Koku!"

"I do," was the simple answer. The giant put the box on the grass and
ran back toward the auto.

"Quick, Ned!" shouted Tom. "Throw some sand on this burning box! That
will put out the fire!"

A few handfuls of earth served to extinguish the little blaze, and by
this time Koku had come back with another box of powder.

"Get 'em all, Koku, get 'em all! Then we can put out the fire on the
auto."

For the giant it was but child's play to carry the heavy boxes of
powder, and soon he had them all removed from the truck. Then, with the
danger thus narrowly averted, they all, including the expressman,
turned in and began throwing sand on the fire, which now had a good
hold on the body of the auto. The shovel, which Eradicate had sent by
Koku, who could use more speed than could the aged colored man, came in
handy.

Soon the fire was out, though not before the truck had been badly
damaged, and some of its load destroyed. But, beyond a charring of some
of the powder boxes, the explosive was intact.

"Whew! That was a lucky escape," murmured Tom, as he sat down on one of
the boxes, and wiped the smoke and sweat from his face.  "A little
later and there'd only been a hole in the ground to tell what happened.
Hot work; eh, Ned?"

"I guess yes, Tom."

"I thought of the powder as soon as I saw that the truck was on fire,"
explained the expressman; "but I didn't know what to do. I was kinder
flustered, I guess. This is the second time this old truck has caught
fire from a leaky gasoline pipe. I guess that will be the last--it will
for me, anyhow. I'll resign if they don't give me another machine. Will
you sign for your stuff?" he asked Tom, holding out the receipt book,
which had escaped the flames.

"Yes, and I'm mighty glad I'm here to sign for it," replied the young
inventor. "Now, Koku, I guess you can take that stuff up to the shop;
but be careful where you put it."

"I do, Master," replied the giant.

"What sort of powder is that, Tom?" asked Ned a little later, when they
were again back in the office, the excitement having calmed down. The
expressman had gone back to town afoot, to arrange about getting
another vehicle for what remained of his load. "Is it the kind they use
in big guns?"

"One of the kinds," replied Tom. "I sent for several samples, and this
is one. I'm going to conduct some tests to see what kind I'll need for
my own big gun. But I expect I'll have to invent an explosive as well
as a cannon, for I want the most powerful I can get. Want to look at
some of this powder?"

"Yes, if you think it's safe."

"Oh, it's safe enough if you treat it right. I'll show you," and
working carefully Tom soon had one of the boxes open.  Reaching into
the depths he held up a handful of something that looked like sticks of
macaroni. "There it is," he said.

"That powder?" cried Ned. "That's a queer kind. I've seen the kind they
use in some guns on the battleships. That powder was in hexagonal form,
about two inches across, and had a hole in the centre. It was colored
brown."

"Well, powder is made in many forms," explained Tom. "A person who has
only seen black gunpowder, with its little grains, would not believe
that this was one grain of the new powder."

"That macaroni stick a grain of powder?" cried Ned.

"Yes, we'll call it a grain," went on the young inventor, "just as the
brown, hexagonal cube you saw was a grain. You see, Ned, the idea is to
explode all the powder at once--to get instantaneous action. It must
all burn up at once as soon as it is detonated, or set off.

"To do that you have to have every grain acted on at the same moment,
and that could not be done if the powder was in one solid chunk, or
closely packed. For that reason they make it in different shapes, so it
will lie loose in the firing chamber, just as a lot of jack-straws are
piled up. In fact, some of the new powder looks like jack-straws. Some,
as this, for instance, looks like macaroni. Other is in cubes, and some
in long strings."

As he spoke Tom struck a match and held the flames near the end of one
of the "macaroni" sticks.

"Caesar's grandmother!" yelled Ned. "Are you crazy, Tom?" as he started
to leap for a window.

"Don't get excited," spoke Tom, quietly. "There's no danger," and he
actually set fire to the stick of queer powder, which burned like some
wax taper.

"But--but--" stammered Ned.

"It is only when powder is confined that it explodes," Tom explained.
"If it can burn in the open it's as harmless as water, provided you
don't burn too much at once. But put it in something where the
resulting gases accumulate and can't escape, and then--why, you have an
explosion--that's all."

"Yes--that's all," remarked Ned, grimly, as he nervously watched the
burning stick of powder. Tom let it flame for a few seconds, and then
calmly blew it out.

"You know what a little puff black gunpowder gives, if you burn some
openly on the ground," went on Tom; "don't you, Ned?"

"Sure, I've often done that."

"But put that same powder in a tight box, and set fire to it, and you
have a bang instead of a puff. It's the same way with this powder, only
it doesn't even puff, for it burns more slowly.

"An explosion, you see, is the sudden liberation at one time of the
gases which result when the powder is burned. If the gases are given
off gradually, and in the open, no harm is done. But put a stick like
this in, say, a steel box, all closed up, save a hole for the fuse, and
what do you have? An explosion. That's the principle of all guns and
cannon.

"But say, Ned, I'm getting to be a regular lecturer. I didn't know I
was running on so. Why didn't you stop me?"

"Because I was interested. Go on, tell me some more."

"Not now. I want to get this powder in a safe place. I'm a little
nervous about it after that fire. You see if it had caught, when
tightly packed in the boxes, there would have been a terrific
explosion, though it does burn so harmlessly in the open air. Now let
me see--"

Tom was interrupted by the postman's whistle, and a little later
Eradicate came in with the mail that had been left in the box at the
shop door. Tom rapidly looked over the letters.

"Here's the note I want, I think," he said, Selecting one.  "Yes, this
is it. 'Permission is hereby granted,' he read, 'to Thomas Swift to
visit,' and so on, and so on. This is the stuff, Ned!" he cried.

"What is it?"

"A permit to visit the government proving grounds at Sandy Hook, Ned,
and see 'em test that new big gun I was telling you about. Hurray!
We'll go down there, and I'll see how my ideas fit in with those of the
government's experts."

"Did you say 'we' would go down, Tom?"

"I sure did. You'll go with me; won't you?"

"Well, I hadn't thought very much about it, but I guess I will.  When
is it?"

"A week from today, and I'm going to need all that time to get ready.
Now let's get busy, and we'll arrange to go to Sandy Hook.  I've had
trouble enough to get this permit--I guess I'll put it where it won't
get lost," and he locked it in a secret drawer of his desk.

Then the lads stored the powder in a safe place, and soon were busy
about several matters in the shop.




CHAPTER V

OFF TO SANDY HOOK


"What's the idea of this government test of the big gun, Tom?" asked
Ned. "I got so excited about that near-explosion the other day, that I
didn't think to ask you all the particulars."

"Why, the idea is to see if the gun will work, and do all that the
inventor claims for it," was the answer. "They always put a new gun
through more severe tests than anything it will be called on to stand
in actual warfare. They want to see just how much margin of safety
there is."

"Oh I see. And is this one of the guns that are to be used in
fortifying the Panama Canal?"

"Well, Ned, I don't know, exactly. You see, the government isn't
telling all its secrets. I assume that it is, and that's why I'm
anxious to see what sort of a gun it is.

"As a matter of fact, I'm going into this thing on a sort of chance,
just as dad did when he invested in Mr. Peterson's opal mine."

"Do you think anything will come of that, Tom?"

"I don't know. If we get down to Panama, after I have made my big gun,
we may take a run over, and see how he is making out.  But, as I said,
I'm going into this big cannon business on a sort of gamble. I have
heard, indirectly, that Uncle Sam intends to use a new type of gun in
fortifying the Panama Canal. It's about forty-nine miles long, you
know, and it will take many guns to cover the whole route, as well as
to protect the two entrances."

"Not so very many if you make a gun that will shoot thirty miles,"
remarked Ned, with a smile.

"I'm not so sure I can do it," went on Tom. "But, even at that, quite a
number of guns will be needed. For if any foreign nation, or any
combination of nations, intend to get the canal away from us, they
won't make the attack from one point. They'll come at us seven
different ways for Sunday, and I've never heard yet of a gun that can
shoot seven ways at once. That's why so many will be needed.

"But, as I said, I don't know just what type the Ordnance Department
will favor, and I want to get a line. Then, even if I invent a cannon
that will outshoot all the others, they may not take mine. Though if
they do, and buy a number of them, I'll be more than repaid for my
labor, besides having the satisfaction of helping my country."

"Good for you, Tom! I wish it was time to go to Sandy Hook now.  I'm
anxious to see that big gun. Do you know anything about it?"

"Not very much. I have heard that it is not quite as large as the old
sixteen-inch rifle that they had to throw away because of some trouble,
I don't know just what. It was impractical, in spite of its size and
great range. But this new gun they are going to test is considerably
smaller, I understand.

"It was invented by a General Waller, and is, I think, about twelve
inches across at the muzzle. In spite of that comparatively small size,
it fires a projectile weighing a thousand pounds, or half a ton, and
takes five hundred pounds of powder. Its range, of course, no one knows
yet, though I have heard it said that General Waller claims it will
shoot twenty miles."

"Whew! Some shot!"

"I'm going to beat it," declared Tom, "and I want to do it without
making such a monstrous gun that it will be difficult to cast it.

"You see, Ned, there is, theoretically, nothing to prevent the casting
of a steel rifled cannon that would be fifty inches across at the
muzzle, and making it a hundred feet long. I mean it could be done on
paper--figured out and all that. But whether you would get a
corresponding increase in power or range, and be able to throw a
relatively larger projectile, is something no one knows, for there
never has been such a gun made. Besides, the strain of the big charge
of powder needed would be enormous. So I don't want merely to make a
giant cannon. I want one that will do a giant's work, and still be
somewhere in the middle-sized class."

"I see. Well, you'll probably get some points at Sandy Hook."

"I think so. We go day after tomorrow."

"Is Mr. Damon going?'

"I think not. If he does I'll have to get another pass, for mine only
calls for two persons. I got it through a Captain Badger, a friend of
mine, stationed at the Sandy Hook barracks.  He doesn't have anything
to do with the coast defense guns, but he got the pass to the proving
grounds for me."

Tom and his chum talked for some time about the prospects for making a
giant cannon, and then the young inventor, with Ned's aid, made some
powder tests, using some of the explosive that had so nearly caught
fire.

"It isn't just what I want," Tom decided, after he had put small
quantities in little steel bombs, and exploded them, at a safe
distance, and under a bank of earth, by means of an electric primer.

"Why, Tom, that powder certainly burst the bombs all to pieces," said
Ned, picking up a shattered piece of steel.

"I know, but it isn't powerful enough for me. I'm going to send for
samples of another kind, and if I can't get what I want I'll make my
own powder. But come on now, this stuff gives me a headache. Let's take
a little flight in the Humming Bird. We'll go see Mr. Damon," and soon
the two lads were in the speedy little monoplane, skimming along like
the birds. The fresh air soon blew away their headaches, caused by the
fumes from the nitro-glycerine, which was the basis of the powder.
Dynamite will often produce a headache in those who work with it.

Two days later Tom and Ned set off for Sandy Hook.

This long, neck-like strip of land on the New Jersey coast is, as most
of you know, one of the principal defenses of our country.

Foreign vessels that steam into New York harbor first have to pass the
line of terrible guns that, back of the earth and concrete defenses,
look frowningly out to sea. It is a wonderful place.

On the Sandy Hook Bay side of the Hook there is a life-saving station.
Right across, on the sea side, are the big guns. Between are the
barracks where the soldiers live, and part of the land is given over to
a proving ground, where many of the big guns are taken to be tested.

Tom and Ned reached New York City without incident of moment, and,
after a night spent at a hotel, they went to the Battery, whence the
small government steamer leaves every day for Sandy Hook. It is a trip
of twenty-one miles, and as the bay was rather rough that day, Tom and
Ned had a taste of a real sea voyage. But they were too experienced
travelers to mind that, though some other visitors were made quite ill.

A landing was made on the bay side of the Hook, it being too rough to
permit of a dock being constructed on the ocean side.

"Now we'll see what luck we have," spoke Tom, as he and Ned, inquiring
the way to the proving grounds from a soldier on duty, started for
them. On the way they passed some of the fortifications.

"Look at that gun!" exclaimed Ned, pointing to a big cannon which
seemed to be crouched down in a sort of concrete pit. "How can they
fire that, Tom? The muzzle points directly at the stone wall. Does the
wall open when they want to fire?"

"No, the gun raises up, peeps over the wall, so speak, shoots out its
projectile, and then crouches down again."

"Oh, you mean a disappearing gun."

"That's it, Ned. See, it works by compressed air," and Tom showed his
chum how, when the gun was loaded, the projectile in place, and the
breech-block screwed fast, the officer in charge of the firing squad
would, on getting the range from the soldier detailed to calculate it,
make the necessary adjustments, and pull the lever.

The compressed air would fill the cylinders, forcing the gun to rise on
toggle-jointed arms, so that the muzzle was above the bomb-proof wall.
Then it would be fired, and sink back again, out of sight of the enemy.

The boys looked at several different types of big rifled cannon, and
then passed on. They could hear firing in the distance, some of the
explosions shaking the ground.

"They're making some tests now," said Tom, hurrying forward.

Ned followed until, passing a sort of machine shop, the lads came to
where a sentry paced up and down a concrete walk.

"Are these the proving grounds?" asked Tom. "This is the entrance to
them," replied the soldier, bringing his rifle to "port," according to
the regulations. "What do you want?"

"To go in and watch the gun tests," replied Tom. "I have a permit," and
he held it out so the soldier could see it.

"That permit is no good here;" the sentry exclaimed.

"No good?" faltered Tom.

"No, it has to be countersigned by General Waller. And, as he's on the
proving grounds now, you can't see him. He's getting ready for the test
of his new cannon."

"But that's just what we want to see!" cried Tom. "We want to get in
there purposely for that. Can't you send word to General Waller?"

"I can't leave my post," replied the sentry, shortly. "You'll have to
come another time, when the General isn't busy. You can't get in unless
he countersigns that permit."

"Then it may be too late to witness the test," objected the young
inventor. "Isn't there some way I can get word to him?"

"I don't think so," replied the sentry. "And I'll have to ask you to
leave this vicinity. No strangers are allowed on the proving grounds
without a proper pass."




CHAPTER VI

TESTING THE WALLER GUN


Tom looked at Ned in dismay. After all their work and planning, to be
thus thwarted, and by a mere technicality! As they stood there, hardly
knowing what to do, the sound of a tremendous explosion came to their
ears from behind the big pile of earth and concrete that formed the
bomb-proof around the testing ground.

"What's that?" cried Ned, as the earth shook.

"Just trying some of the big guns," explained the sentry, who was not a
bad-natured chap. He had to do his duty. "You'd better move on," he
suggested. "If anything happens the government isn't responsible, you
know."

"I wish there was some way of getting in there," murmured Tom.

"You can see General Waller after the test, and he will probably
countersign the permit," explained the sentry.

"And we won't see the test of the gun I'm most interested in," objected
Tom. "If I could only--"

He stopped as he noticed the sentry salute someone coming up from the
rear. Tom and Ned turned to behold a pleasant-faced officer, who, at
the sight of the young inventor, exclaimed:

"Well, well! If it isn't my old friend Tom Swift! So you got here on my
permit after all?"

"Yes, Captain Badger," replied the lad, and then with a rueful face he
added: "But it doesn't seem to be doing me much good. I can't get into
the proving grounds."

"You can't? Why not?" and he looked sharply at the sentry.

"Very sorry, sir," spoke the man on guard, "but General Waller has left
orders, Captain Badger, that no outsiders can enter the proving grounds
when his new gun is being tested unless he countersigns the permits.
And he's engaged just now. I'm sorry, but--"

"Oh, that's all right, Flynn," said Captain Badger. "It isn't your
fault, of course. I suppose there is no rule against my going in
there?" and he smiled.

"Certainly not, sir. Any officer may go in," and the guard stepped to
one side.

"Let me have that pass, Tom, and wait here for me," said the Captain.
"I'll see what I can do for you," and the young officer, whose
acquaintance Tom had made at the tests when the government was
purchasing some aeroplanes for the army, hurried off.

He came back presently, and by his face the lads knew he had been
successful.

"It's all right," he said with a smile. "General Waller countersigned
the pass without even looking at it. He's so excited over the coming
test of his gun that he hardly knows what he is doing. Come on in,
boys. I'll go with you."

"Then they haven't tested his gun yet?" Asked Tom, eagerly, anxious to
know whether he had missed anything.

"No, they're going to do so in about half an hour. You'll have time to
look around a bit. Come on," and showing the sentinel the
counter-signed pass, Captain Badger led the two youths into the proving
grounds.

Tom and Ned saw so much to interest them that they did not know at
which to look first. In some places officers and firing squads were
testing small-calibre machine guns, which shot off a round with a noise
like a string of firecrackers on the Chinese New Year's. On other
barbettes larger guns were being tested, the noise being almost
deafening.

"Stand on your tiptoes, and open your mouth when you see a big cannon
about to be fired," advised Captain Badger, as he walked alongside the
boys.

"What good does that do?" inquired Ned.

"It makes your contact with the earth as small as possible--standing on
your toes," the officer explained, "and so reduces the tremor. Opening
your mouth, in a measure, equalizes the changed air pressure, caused by
the vacuum made when the powder explodes. In other words, you get the
same sort of pressure down inside your throat, and in the tubes leading
to the ear--the same pressure inside, as outside.

"Often the firing of big guns will burst the ear drums of the officers
near the cannon, and this may often be prevented by opening the mouth.
It's just like going through a deep tunnel, or sometimes when an
elevator descends quickly from a great height.  There is too much
outside air pressure on the ear drums. By opening your mouth and
swallowing rapidly, the pressure is nearly equaled, and you feel no
discomfort."

The boys tried this when the next big gun was fired, and they found it
true. They noticed quite a crowd of officers and men about a certain
large barbette, and Captain Badger led them in that direction.

"Is that General Waller's gun?" asked Tom.

"That's where they are going to test it," was the answer.

Eagerly Tom and Ned pressed forward. No one of the many officers and
soldiers grouped about the new cannon seemed to notice them. A tall
man, who seemed very nervous and excited, was hurrying here and there,
giving orders rapidly.

"How is that range now?" he asked. "Let me take a look! Are you sure
the patrol vessels are far enough out? I think this projectile is going
farther than any of you gentlemen have calculated."

"I believe we have correctly estimated the distance," answered someone,
and the two entered into a discussion.

"That excited officer is General Waller," explained Captain Badger, in
a low voice, to Tom and Ned.

"I guessed as much," replied the young inventor. Then he went closer to
get a better look at the big cannon.

I say big cannon, and yet it was not the largest the government had. In
fact, Tom estimated the calibre to be less than twelve inches, but the
cannon was very long--much longer in proportion than guns of greater
muzzle diameter. Then, too, the breech, or rear part, was very thick
and heavy.

"He must be going to use a tremendous lot of powder," said Tom.

"He is," answered Captain Badger. "Some of us think he is going to use
too much, but he says it is impossible to burst his gun.  He wants to
make a long-range record shot, and maybe he will."

"That's a new kind of breech block," commented Tom, as he watched the
mechanism being operated.

"Yes, that's General Waller's patent, too. They're going to fire soon."

I might explain, briefly, for the benefit of you boys who have never
seen a big, modern cannon, that it consists of a central core of cast
steel. This is rifled, just as a small rifle is bored, with twisted
grooves throughout its length. The grooves, or rifling, impart a
twisting motion to the projectiles, and keep them in a straighter line.

After the central core is made and rifled, thick jackets of steel are
"shrunk" on over the rear part of the gun. Sometimes several jackets
are put on, one over the other, to make the gun stronger.

If you have ever seen a blacksmith put a tire on a wheel you will
understand what I mean. The tire is heated, and this expands it, or
makes it larger. It is put on hot, and when it cools it shrinks,
getting smaller, and gripping the rim of the wheel in a strong embrace.
That is what the jackets of steel do to the big guns.

A big rifled cannon is loaded from the rear, or breech, just as is a
breech-loading shotgun or rifle. That is, the cannon is opened at the
back and the projectile is put in by means of a derrick, for often the
projectiles weigh a thousand pounds or more. Next comes the
powder--hundreds of pounds of it--and then it is necessary to close the
breech.

The breech block does this. That block is a ponderous piece of steel,
quite complicated, and it swings on a hinge fastened to one side of the
rear of the gun. Once it is swung back into place, it is made fast by
means of screw threads, wedges or in whatever way the inventor of the
gun deems best.

The breech block must be very strong, and held firmly in place, or the
terrific force of the powder would blow it out, wreck the gun and kill
those behind it. You see, the breech block really stands a great part
of the strain. The powder is between it and the projectile, and there
is a sort of warfare to see which will give way--the projectile or the
block. In most cases the projectile gracefully bows, so to speak, and
skips out of the muzzle of the gun, though sometimes the big breech
block will be shattered.

With eager eyes Tom and Ned watched the preparations for firing the big
gun. The charge of powder was hoisted out of the bomb-proof chamber
below the barbette, and then the great projectile was brought up in
slings. At the sight of that Tom realized that the gun was no ordinary
one, for the great piece of steel was nearly three feet long, and must
have weighed nearly a thousand pounds. Truly, much powder would be
needed to send that on its way.

"I'm afraid, General, that you are using too much of that strong
powder," Tom heard one officer say to the inventor of the gun. "It may
burst the breech."

"Nonsense, Colonel Washburn. I tell you it is impossible to burst my
gun--impossible, sir! I have allowed for every emergency, and
calculated every strain. I have a margin of safety equal to fifty per
cent."

"Very well, I hope it proves a success."

"Of course it will. It is impossible to burst my gun! Now, are we ready
for the test."

The gun was rather crude in form, not having received its final polish,
and it was mounted on a temporary carriage. But even with that Tom
could see that it was a wonderful weapon, though he thought he would
have put on another jacket toward the muzzle, to further strengthen
that portion.

"I'm going to make a gun bigger than that," said Tom to Ned. He spoke
rather louder than he intended, and, as it was at a moment when there
was a period of silence, the words carried to General Waller, who was
at that moment near Tom.

"What's that?" inquired the rather fiery-tempered officer, as he looked
sharply at our hero.

"I said I was going to make a larger gun than that," repeated Tom,
modestly.

"Sir! Do you know what you are saying? How did you come in here,
anyhow? I thought no civilians were to be admitted today!  Explain how
you got here!"

Tom felt an angry flush mounting to his cheeks.

"I came in here on a pass countersigned by you," he replied.

"A pass countersigned by me? Let me see it."

Tom passed it over.

"Humph, it doesn't seem to be forged," went on the pompous officer.
"Who are you, anyhow?"

"Tom Swift."

"Hum!"

"General Waller, permit me to introduce Tom Swift to you," spoke
Captain Badger, stepping forward, and trying not to smile.  "He is one
of our foremost inventors. It is his type of monoplane that the
government has adopted for the coming maneuvers at Panama, you may
recall, and he was very helpful to Uncle Sam in stopping that swindling
on the border last year--Tom and his big searchlight. Mr. Swift,
General Waller," and Captain Badger bowed as he completed the
introduction.

"What's that. Tom Swift here? Let me meet him!" exclaimed an elderly
officer coming through the crowd. The others parted to make way for
him, as he seemed to be a person of some importance, to judge by his
uniform, and the medals he wore.

"Tom Swift here!" he went on. "I want to shake hands with you, Tom! I
haven't seen you since I negotiated with you for the purchase of those
submarines you invented, and which have done such splendid service for
the government. Tom, I'm glad to see you here today."

The face of General Waller was a study in blank amazement.




CHAPTER VII

THE IMPOSSIBLE OCCURS


There were murmurs throughout the throng about the big gun, as the
officer approached Tom Swift and shook hands with him.

"What have you in mind now, Tom, that you come to Sandy Hook?" the
much-medaled officer asked.

"Nothing much, Admiral," answered our hero.

"Oh, yes, you have!" returned Admiral Woodburn, head of the naval
forces of Uncle Sam. "You've got some idea in your head, or you
wouldn't come to see this test of my friend's gun. Well, if you can
invent anything as good for coast defense, or even interior defense, as
your submarines, it will be in keeping with what you have done in the
past. I congratulate you, General Waller, on having Tom Swift here to
give you the benefit of some of his ideas."

"I--I haven't had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Swift before," said the
gun inventor, stiffly. "I did not recognize his name when I
countersigned his pass."

It was plain that the greeting of Tom by Admiral Woodburn had had a
marked effect in changing sentiment toward our hero.  Captain Badger
smiled as he noticed with what different eyes the gun inventor now
regarded the lad.

"Well, if Tom Swift gives you any points about your gun, you want to
adopt them," went on the Admiral. "I thought I knew something about
submarines, but Tom taught me some things, too; didn't you, Tom?"

"Oh, it was just a simple matter, Admiral," said Tom, modestly.  "Just
that little point about the intake valves and the ballast tanks."

"But they changed the whole matter. Yes, General, you take Tom's
advice--if he gives you any."

"I don't know that I will need any--as yet," replied General Waller. "I
am confident my gun will be a success as it is at present constructed.
Later, however, if I should decide to make any changes, I will gladly
avail myself of Mr. Swift's counsel," and he bowed stiffly to Tom. "We
will now proceed with the test," he went on. "Kindly send a wireless to
the patrol ships that we are about to fire, and ask them to note
carefully where the projectile falls."

"Very good, sir," spoke the officer in immediate charge of the matter,
as he saluted. Soon from the aerials snapped the vicious sparks that
told of the wireless telegraph being worked.

I might explain that near the spot where the projectile was expected to
fall into the sea--about fifteen miles from Sandy Hook--several war
vessels were stationed to warn shipping to give the place a wide berth.
This was easy, since the big gun had been aimed at a spot outside of
the steamship lanes. Aiming the rifle in a certain direction, and
giving it a definite angle of inclination, made it practically certain
just where the shot would fall. This is called "getting the range," and
while, of course, the exact limit of fire of the new gun was not known,
it had been computed as nearly as possible.

"Is everything ready now?" asked General Waller, while Tom was
conversing with his friends, Captain Badger and Admiral Woodburn, Ned
taking part in the conversation from time to time.

"All ready, sir," was the assurance. The inventor was plainly nervous
as the crucial moment of the test approached. He went here and there
upon the barbette, testing the various levers and gear wheels of the
gun.

The projectile and powder had been put in, the breech-block screwed
into place, the primer had been inserted, and all that remained was to
press the button that would make the electrical connection, and explode
the charge. This act of firing the gun had been intrusted to one of the
soldiers, for General Waller and his brother officers were to retire to
a bomb-proof, whence they would watch the effect of the fire, and note
the course of the projectile.

"It seems to me," remarked Ned, "that the soldier who is going to fire
the gun is in the most danger."

"He would be--if it exploded," spoke Tom, for his officer friends had
joined their colleagues, most of whom were now walking toward the
shelter. "But I think there is little danger.

"You see, the electric wires are long enough to enable him to stand
some distance from the gun. And, if he likes, he can crouch behind that
concrete wall of the next barbette. Still, there is some chance of an
accident, for, no matter how carefully you calculate the strain of a
bursting charge of powder, and how strongly you construct the
breech-block to stand the strain, there is always the possibility of a
flaw in the metal. So, Ned, I think we'll just go to the bomb-proof
ourselves, when we see General Waller making for the same place."

"I suppose," remarked Ned, "that in actual warfare anyone who fired one
of the big guns would have to stand close to it--closer than that
soldier is now."

"Oh, yes--much," replied Tom, as he watched General Waller giving the
last instructions to the private who was to press the button. "Only, of
course, in war the guns will have been tested, and this one has not.
Here he comes; I guess we'd better be moving."

General Waller, having assured himself that everything was as right as
possible, had given the last word to the private and was now making his
way toward the bomb-proof, within which were gathered his
fellow-officers and friends.

"You had better retire from the immediate vicinity of the gun," said
its inventor to Tom and Ned, as he passed them. "For, while I have
absolute confidence in my cannon, and I know that it is impossible to
burst it, the concussion may be unpleasant at such close range."

"Thank you," said Tom. "We are going to get in a safe place."

He could not refrain from contrasting the general's manner now with
what it had been at first.

As for Ned, he could not help wondering why, if the inventor had such
absolute faith in his weapon, he did not fire it himself, even at the
risk of a "concussion."

How it happened was never accurately known, as the soldier declared
positively--after he came out of the hospital--that he had not pressed
the button. The theory was that the wires had become crossed, making a
short circuit, which caused the gun to go off prematurely.

But suddenly, while Tom, Ned and General Waller were still some
distance away from the bomb-proof, there was a terrific explosion. It
seemed as if the very foundations of the fortifications would be
shattered. There was a roaring in the air--a hot burst of flame, and
instantly such a vacuum was created that Tom and Ned found themselves
gasping for breath.

Dazed, shaken in every bone, with their muscles sore, they picked
themselves up from the ground, along which they had been blown with
great force in the direction of the bomb-proof. Even as Tom struggled
to his feet, intending to run to safety in fear of other explosions, he
realized what had happened.

"What--what was it?" cried Ned, as he, too, arose.

"The gun burst!" yelled Tom.

He looked to the left and saw General Waller picking himself up, his
uniform torn, and blood streaming from a cut on his face.  At the same
instant Tom was aware of the body of a man flying through the air
toward a distant grass plot, and the young inventor recognized it as
that of the soldier who had been detailed to fire the great cannon.

Almost instantaneously as everything happened, Tom was aware of
noticing several things, as though they took place in sequence.  He
looked toward where the gun had stood. It was in ruins. The young
inventor saw something, which he took to be the projectile, skimming
across the sea waves, and he had a fleeting glimpse of the greater
portion of the immense weapon itself sinking into the depths of the
ocean.

Then, coming down from a great height in the air, he saw a dark object.
It was another piece of the cannon that had been hurled skyward.

"Look out!" Tom yelled, instinctively, as he staggered toward the
bomb-proof, Ned following.

He saw a number of officers running out to assist General Waller, who
seemed too dazed to move. Many of them had torn uniforms, and not a few
were bleeding from their injuries. Then the air seemed filled with a
rain of small missiles--stones, dirt, gravel and pieces of metal.




CHAPTER VIII

A BIG PROBLEM


"Are you much hurt, Ned?"

Tom Swift bent anxiously over the prostrate form of his chum. A big
piece of the burst gun had fallen close to Ned--so close, in fact, that
Tom, who saw it as he neared the entrance to the bomb-proof, shuddered
as he raced back. But there was no sign of injury on his chum.

"Are you much hurt, Ned?"

The lad's eyes opened. He seemed dazed.

"No--no, I guess not," he answered, slowly. "I--I guess I'm as much
scared as hurt, Tom. It was the wind from that big piece that knocked
me down. It didn't actually hit me."

"No, I should say not," put in Captain Badger, who had run out toward
the two lads. "If it had hit you there wouldn't have been much of you
left to tell the tale," and he nodded toward the big piece of metal Tom
had seen coming down from the sky. That part of the cannon forming a
portion of the breech had buried itself deep in the earth. It had
landed close to Ned--so close that, as he said, the wind of it, as well
as the concussion, perhaps, had thrown him with enough force to send
the breath from him.

"Glad to hear that, old man!" exclaimed Tom, with a sigh of relief. "If
you'd been hurt I should have blamed myself."

"That would have been foolish. I took the same chance that you did,"
answered Ned, as he arose, and limped off between the captain and Tom.

A great silence seemed to have followed the terrific report.  And now
the officers and soldiers began to recover from the stupor into which
the accident had thrown them. Sentries began pouring into the proving
grounds from other portions of the barracks, and an ambulance call was
sent in.

General Waller's comrades had hurried out to him, and were now leading
him away. He did not seem to be much hurt, though, like many others, he
had received numerous cuts and scratches from bits of stone and gravel
scattered by the explosion, as well as from small bits of metal that
were thrown in all directions.

"Are you hurt, General?" asked Admiral Woodburn, as he put his arm
about the shoulder of the inventor.

"No--that is to say, I don't think so. But what happened? Did they fire
some other gun in our direction by mistake?"

For a moment they all hesitated. Then the Admiral said, gently:

"No, General. It was your own gun--it burst."

"My gun! My gun burst?"

"That was it. Fortunately, no one was killed."

"My gun burst! How could that happen? I drew every plan for that gun
myself. I made every allowance. I tell you it was impossible for it to
burst!"

"But it did burst, General," went on the Admiral. "You can see for
yourself," and he turned around and waved his hand toward the barbette
where the gun had been mounted. All that remained of it now was part of
the temporary carriage, and a small under-portion of the muzzle. The
entire breech, with the great block, had been blown into fragments, so
powerful was the powder used. The projectile one watcher reported, had
gone about three hundred yards over the top of the barbette and then
dropped into the sea, very little of the force of the explosive having
been expended on that. A large piece of the gun had also been lost in
the water off shore.

"My gun burst! My gun burst!" murmured General Waller, as if unable to
comprehend it. "My gun burst--it is impossible!"

"But it did," spoke Admiral Woodburn, softly. "Come, you had better see
the surgeon. You may be more seriously injured than you think."

"Was anyone else hurt?" asked the inventor, listlessly. He seemed to
have lost all interest, for the time being.

"No one seriously, as far as we can learn," was the answer.

"What of the man who fired the gun?" inquired the General.

"He was blown high into the air," said Tom. "I saw him."

"But he is not injured beyond some bruises," put in one of the
ambulance surgeons. "We have taken him to the hospital. He fell on a
pile of bags that had held concrete, and they saved him. It was a
miraculous escape."

"I am glad of it," said General Waller. "It is bad enough to feel that
I made some mistake, causing the gun to burst; but I would never cease
to reproach myself if I felt that the man who fired it was killed, or
even hurt."

His friends led him away, and Tom and Ned went over to look at what
remained of the great gun. Truly, the powder, expending its force in a
direction not meant for it, had done terrific havoc.  Even part of the
solid concrete bed of the barbette had been torn up.

An official inquiry was at once started, and, while it would take some
time to complete it (for the parts of the gun remaining were to be
subjected to an exhaustive test to determine the cause of the
weakness), it was found that there was some defect in the wiring and
battery that was used to fire the charge.

The soldier who was to press the button was sure he had not done so, as
he had been ordered to wait until General Waller gave the signal from
the bomb-proof. But the gun went off before its inventor reached that
place of safety. Just what had caused the premature discharge could
never be learned, as part of the firing apparatus had been blown to
atoms.

"Well, Tom, what do you think of it?" asked Ned, who had now fully
recovered from the shock. The two were about to leave the proving
grounds, having seen all that they cared to.

"I don't know just what to think," was the answer. "It sure was a big
explosion, and it goes to prove that, no matter how many calculations
you make, when you try a new powder in a new gun you don't know what's
going to happen, until after it has happened--and then it's too late.
It's a big problem, Ned."

"Do you think you can solve it? Are you still going on with your plan
to build the biggest cannon ever made?"

"I sure am, Ned, though I don't know that I'll make out any better than
General Waller did. It's too bad his was a failure; but I think I see
where he made some mistakes."

"Oh, you do; eh?" suddenly exclaimed a voice, and from a nearby
parapet, where he had gone to look at one of the pieces of his gun,
stepped General Waller. "So you think I made some mistakes, Tom Swift?
Where, pray?"

"In making the breech. The steel jackets were of uneven thickness,
making the strain unequal. Then, too, I do not think the powder was
sufficiently tested. It was probably of uneven strength. That is only
my opinion, sir."

"Well, you are rather young to give opinions to men who have devoted
almost all their lives to the study of high explosives."

"I realize that, sir; but you asked me for my opinion. I shall hope to
profit by your mistakes, too. That is one reason I wanted to see this
test."

"Then you are seriously determined to make a gun that you think will
rival mine."

"I am, General Waller."

"For what purpose--to sell to some foreign government?"

"No, sir!" cried Tom, with flashing eyes. "If I am successful in making
a cannon that will fire the longest shots on record, I shall offer it
to Uncle Sam first of all. If he does not want it, I shall not dispose
of it to any foreign country!"

"Hum! Well, I don't believe you'll succeed. I intend to rebuild my gun
at once, though I may make some changes in it. I am sure I shall
succeed the next time. But as for you--a mere youth--to hope to rival
men who have made this problem a life-study--it is preposterous, sir!
Utterly preposterous!" and he uttered these words much as he had
declared that it was impossible for his gun to burst, even after it was
in fragments.

"Come on, Ned," said Tom, in a low voice. "We'll go back home."




CHAPTER IX

THE NEW POWDER


"Bless my cartridge belt, Tom, you don't really mean to say that stuff
is powder!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.

"That's what I hope it will prove to be--and powerful powder at that."

"Why, it looks more like excelsior than anything else," went on the odd
man, gingerly taking up some yellowish shreds in his fingers.

"And it will burn as harmlessly as excelsior in the open air," went on
Tom. "But I hope to prove, when it is confined in a chamber, that it
will be highly explosive. I'm going to make a test of it soon."

"Give me good notice, so I can get over in the next State!" exclaimed
Ned Newton, with a laugh.

This was several days after our friends had returned from the
disastrous gun test at Sandy Hook. Tom had at once gotten to work on
the problem that confronted him--a problem of his own making--to build
a giant cannon that would make the longest shots on record. And he had
first turned his attention to the powder, or explosive, to be used.

"For," he said, "there is no use having a big gun unless you can fire
it. And the gun I am planning will need something more powerful in the
powder line than any I've ever heard of."

"Stronger than the kind General Waller used?" inquired Ned.

"Yes, but I'll make my cannon correspondingly stronger, too, so there
will be no danger."

"Bless my shoe buttons!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "You boys must have had
your nerve with you to stay around Sandy Hook after that gun went up in
the air."

"Oh, the danger was all over soon after it began," spoke Tom, with a
smile. "But now I'm going to test some of this powder. If you want to
run away, Mr. Damon, I'll have Koku take you up in one of the airships,
and you'll certainly be safe a mile or so in the air," for Tom had
instructed his giant servant how to run one of the simpler biplanes.

"No--no, Tom, I'll stick!" exclaimed the eccentric man. "I'll not
promise not to hide behind the fence, or something like that, though,
Tom; but I'll stick."

"So will I," added Ned. "How are you going to make the test, Tom?"

"I'll tell you in a minute. I want to do a little figuring first."

Tom had, before going to Sandy Hook, made some experiments in powder
manufacturing, but they had not been very satisfactory. He had not been
able to get power enough. On his return he had undertaken rather a
daring innovation. He had mingled two varieties of powder, and the
resulting combination would, he hoped, prove just what he wanted.

The powder was in gelatin form, being made with nitro-glycerine as a
base. It looked, as Mr. Damon had said, like a bunch of excelsior, only
it was yellow instead of white, and it felt not unlike pieces of dry
macaroni.

"I have shredded the powder in this manner," Tom explained, "so that it
will explode more evenly and quickly. I want it to burn as nearly
instantaneously as possible, and I think it will in this form."

"But how are you going to tell how powerful it is unless you fire it in
a cannon?" asked Ned. "And you haven't even started your big gun yet."

"Oh, I'll show you," declared Tom. "There are several ways of making a
test, but I have one of my own. I am going to take a solid block of
steel, of known weight--say about a hundred pounds. This I will put
into a sort of square cylinder, or well, closed at the bottom somewhat
like the breech of a gun. The block of steel fits so closely in the
square well that no air or powder gas can pass it.

"In the bottom of this well, which may be a foot square, I will put a
small charge of this new powder. On top of that will come the steel
block. Then by means of electric wires I can fire the charge.

"Attached to the steel well, or chamber, will be a gauge, a pressure
recorder and other apparatus. When the powder, of which I will use only
a pinch, carefully weighing it, goes off, it will raise the
hundred-pound weight a certain distance. This will be noted on the
scale. There will also be shown the amount of pressure released in the
gas given off by the powder. In that way I can make some calculations."

"How?" asked Ned, who was much interested.

"Well, for instance, if one ounce of powder raises the weight three
feet, and gives a muzzle pressure of, say, five hundred pounds, I can
easily compute what a thousand pounds of powder, acting on a projectile
weighing two tons and a half, would do, and how far it would shoot it."

"Bless my differential gear!" cried Mr. Damon. "A projectile weighing
two and a half, tons! Tom, it's impossible!"

"That's what General Waller said about his gun; but it burst, just the
same," declared Ned. "Poor man, I felt sorry for him. He seemed rather
put out at you, Tom."

"I guess he was--a bit--though I didn't mean anything disrespectful in
what I said. But now we'll have this test. Koku, take the rest of this
powder back. I'll only keep a small quantity."

The giant, who, being more active than Eradicate, had rather supplanted
the aged colored man, did as he was bid, and soon Tom, with Ned and Mr.
Damon to help him, was preparing for the test.

They went some distance away from any of the buildings, for, though Tom
was only going to use a small quantity of the explosive, he did not
just know what the result would be, and he wanted to take no chances.

"I know from personal experience what the two kinds of powder from
which I made this sample will do," he said; "but it is like taking two
known quantities and getting a third unknown one from them. There is an
unequal force between the two samples that may make an entirely new
compound."

The steel chamber that was to receive the hundred-pound steel block had
been prepared in advance, as had the various gauges and registering
apparatus.

"Well, I guess we'll start things moving now," went on Tom, as he
looked over the things he had brought from his shops to the deserted
meadow. The fact of the test had been kept a secret, so there were no
spectators. "Ned, give me a hand with this block," Tom went on. "It's a
little too heavy to lift alone." He was straining and tugging at the
heavy piece of steel.

"Me do!" exclaimed Koku the giant, gently pushing Tom to one side. Then
the big man, with one hand, raised the hundred-pound weight as easily
as if it were a loaf of bread, and deposited it where Tom wanted it.

"Thanks!" exclaimed our hero, with a laugh. "I didn't make any mistake
when I brought you home with me, Koku."

"Huh! I could hab lifted dat weight when I was a young feller!"
exclaimed Eradicate, who was, it is needless to say, jealous of the
giant.

The powder had been put in the firing chamber. The steel socket had
been firmly fixed in the earth, so that if the force of the explosion
was in a lateral direction, instead of straight up, no damage would
result. The weight, even if it shot from the muzzle of the improvised
"cannon," would only go harmlessly up in the air, and then drop back.
The firing wires were so long that Tom and his friends could stand some
distance away.

"Are you all ready?" cried Tom, as he looked to see that the wiring was
clear.

"As ready as we ever shall be," replied Mr. Damon, who, with Ned and
the others, had taken refuge behind a low hill.

"Oh, this isn't going to be much of an explosion," laughed Tom.  "It
won't be any worse than a Fourth of July cannon. Here she goes!"

He pressed the electric button, there was a flash, a dull, muffled
report and, for a moment, something black showed at the top of the
steel chamber. Then it dropped back inside again.

"Pshaw!" cried Tom, in disappointed tones. "It didn't even blow the
weight out of the tube. That powder's no good! It's a failure!"

Followed by the others, the young inventor started toward the small
square "cannon." Tom wanted to read the records made by the gases.

Suddenly Koku cried:

"There him be, master! There him be!" and he pointed toward a distant
path that traversed the meadow.

"He? Whom do you mean?" asked Tom, startled the giant's excited manner.

"That man what come and look at Master's new powder," was the
unexpected answer. "Him say he want to surprise you, and he come today,
but no speak. He run away. Look--him go!" and he pointed toward a
figure of distinctly military bearing hurrying along the road that led
to Shopton.




CHAPTER X

SOMETHING WRONG


"Bless my buttons!" cried Mr. Damon.

"Let's chase after him!" yelled Ned.

"Koku kin run de fastest oh any oh us," put in Eradicate. "Let him go."

"Hold on--wait a minute!" exclaimed Tom. "We want to know who that man
is--and why we're going to chase after him. Koku, I guess it's up to
you. Something has been going on here that I don't know anything about.
Explain!"

"Well, it's no use to chase after him now," said Ned. "There he goes on
his motor-cycle."

As he spoke the man, who, even from a rear view, presented all the
characteristics of an army man, so straight was his carriage, leaped
upon a motor-cycle that he pulled from the roadside bushes, and soon
disappeared in a cloud of dust.

"No, he's gone," spoke Tom, half-regretfully. "But who was he, Koku?
You seemed to know him. What was he doing out here, watching my test?"

"Me tell," said the giant, simply. "Little while after Master come back
from where him say big gun all go smash, man come to shop when Master
out one day. Him very nice man, and him say him know you, and want to
help you make big cannon. I say, 'Master no be at home.' Man say him
want to give master a little present of powder for use in new cannon.
Master be much pleased, man say.  Make powder better. I take, and I
want Master to be pleased. I put stuff what man gave me in new powder.
Man go away--he laugh--he say he be here today see what happen--I tell
him you go to make test today. Man say Master be much surprised. That
all I know."

Silence followed Koku's statement. To Ned and Mr. Damon it was not
exactly clear, but Tom better understood his giant servant's queer talk.

"Is that what you mean, Koku?" asked the young inventor, after a pause.
"Did some stranger come here one day when I was out, after I had made
my new powder, and did he give you some 'dope' to put in it?"

"What you mean by 'dope'?"

"I mean any sort of stuff."

"Yes, man give me something like sugar, and I sprinkle it on new powder
for to surprise Master."

"Well, you've done it, all right," said Tom, grimly. "Have you any of
the stuff left?"

"I put all in iron box where Master keep new powder."

"Well, then some of it must be there yet. Probably it sifted through
the excelsior-like grains of my new explosive, and we'll find it on the
bottom of the powder-case. But enough stuck to the strands to spoil my
test. I'll just take a reading of the gauges, and then we'll make an
investigation."

Tom, with Ned to help him, made notes of how far the weight had risen
in the tube, and took data of other points in the experiment.

"Pshaw!" exclaimed Tom. "There wasn't much more force to my new powder,
doped as it apparently has been, than to the stuff I can buy in the
open market. But I'm glad I know what the trouble is, for I can remedy
it. Come on back to the shop. Koku, don't you ever do anything like
this again," and Tom spoke severely.

"No, Master," answered the giant, humbly.

"Did you ever see this man before, Koku?"

"No, Master."

"What kind of a fellow was he?" asked Ned.

"Oh, him got whiskers on him face, and stand very straight, like stick
bending backwards. Him look like a soldier, and him blink one eye more
than the other."

Tom and Ned started and looked at one another.

"That description fits General Waller," said Ned, in a low voice to his
chum.

"Yes, in a way; but it would be out of the question for the General to
do such a thing. Besides, the man who ran away, and escaped on his
motor-cycle, was larger than General Waller."

"It was hard to tell just what size he was at the distance," spoke Ned.
"It doesn't seem as though he would try to spoil your experiments,
though."

"Maybe he hoped to spoil my cannon," remarked Tom, with a laugh that
had no mirth in it. "My cannon that isn't cast yet. He probably
misunderstood Koku's story of the test, and had no idea it was only a
miniature, experimental, gun.

"This will have to be looked into. I can't have strangers prowling
about here, now that I am going to get to work on a new invention.
Koku, I expect you, after this, not to let strangers approach unless I
give the word. Eradicate, the same thing applies to you. You didn't see
anything of this mysterious man; did you?"

"No, Massa 'Tom. De only s'picious man I see was mab own cousin
sneakin' around mah chicken coop de odder night. I tooks mah ole shot
gun, an' sa'ntered out dat way. Den in a little while dere wasn't no
s'picious man any mo'."

"You didn't shoot him; did you, Rad?" cried Tom, quickly.

"No, Massa Tom--dat is, I didn't shoot on puppose laik. De gun jest
natchelly went off by itself accidental-laik, an' it peppered him good
an' proper."

"Why, Rad!" cried Ned. "You didn't tell us about this."

"Well, I were 'shamed ob mah cousin, so I was. Anyhow, I only had salt
an' pepper in de gun--'stid ob shot. I 'spect mah cousin am pretty well
seasoned now. But dat's de only s'picious folks I see, 'ceptin' maybe a
peddler what wanted t' gib me a dish pan fo' a pair ob ole shoes; only
I didn't hab any."

"There are altogether too many strangers coming about here," went on
Tom. "It must be stopped, if I have to string charged electric wires
about the shops as I once did."

They hurried back to the shop where the new powder was kept, and Tom at
once investigated it. Taking the steel box from where it was stored he
carefully removed the several handfuls of excelsior-like explosive. On
the bottom of the box, and with some of it clinging to some of the
powder threads, was a sort of white powder. It had a peculiar odor.

"Ha!" cried Tom, as soon as he saw it. "I know what that is.  It's a
new form of gun-cotton, very powerful. Whoever gave it to Koku to put
on my powder hoped to blow to atoms any cannon in which it might be
used. There's enough here to do a lot of damage."

"How is it that it didn't blow your test cylinder to bits?" asked Ned.

"For the reason that the stuff I use in my powder and this new
gun-cotton neutralized one another," the young inventor explained. "One
weakened the other, instead of making a stronger combination. A
chemical change took place, and lucky for us it did. It was just like a
man taking an over-dose of poison--it defeated itself. That's why my
experiment was a failure. Now to put this stuff where it can do no
harm. Is this what that man gave you, Koku?"

"That's it, Master."

There came a tap on the door of the private room, and instinctively
everyone started. Then came the voice of Eradicate, saying:

"Dere's a army gen'men out here to see you. Massa Tom; but I ain't
gwine t' let him in lessen as how you says so."

"An army gentleman!" repeated Tom.

"Yais, sah! He say he General Waller, an' he come on a motor-cycle."

"General Waller!" exclaimed Tom. "What can he want out here?"

"And on a motor-cycle, too!" added Ned. "Tom, what's going on, anyhow?"

The young inventor shook his head.

"I don't know," he replied; "but I suppose I had better see him. Here,
Koku, put this powder away, and then go outside. Mr. Damon, you'll
stay; won't you?"

"If you need me, Tom. Bless my finger nails! But there seems to be
something wrong here."

"Show him in, Rad!" called Tom.

"Massa Gen'l Herodotus Waller!" exclaimed the colored man in pompous
tones, as he opened the door for the officer, clad in khaki, whom Tom
had last seen at Sandy Hook.

"Ah, how do you do, Mr. Swift!" exclaimed General Waller, extending his
hand. "I got your letter inviting me to a test of your new explosive. I
hope I am not too late."

Tom stared at him in amazement.




CHAPTER XI

FAILURE AND SUCCESS


"You--you got my letter!" stammered Tom, holding out his hand for a
missive which the General extended. "I--I don't exactly understand. My
letter?"

"Yes, certainly," went on the officer. "It was very kind of you to
remember me after--well, to be perfectly frank with you, I did resent,
a little, your remarks about my unfortunate gun. But I see you are of a
forgiving spirit."

"But I didn't write you any letter!" exclaimed Tom, feeling more and
more puzzled.

"You did not? What is this?" and the General unfolded a paper.  Tom
glanced over it. Plainly it was a request for the General to be present
at the test on that day, and it was signed with Tom Swift's name.

But as soon as the young inventor saw it, he knew that it was a forgery.

"I never sent that letter!" he exclaimed. "Look, it is not at all like
my handwriting," and he took up some papers from a near-by table and
quickly compared some of his writing with that in the letter. The
difference was obvious.

"Then who did send it?" asked General Waller. "If someone has been
playing a joke on me it will not be well for him!" and he drew himself
up pompously.

"If a joke has been played--and it certainly seems so," spoke Tom, "I
had no hand in it. And did you come all the way from Sandy Hook because
of this letter?"

"No, I am visiting friends in Waterford," said the officer, naming the
town where Mr. Damon lived. "My cousin is Mr. Pierce Watkins."

"Bless my doorbell!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, "I know him! He lives just
around the corner from me. Bless my very thumb prints!"

General Waller stared at Mr. Damon in some amazement, and resumed:

"Owing to the unfortunate accident to my gun, and to some slight
injuries I sustained, I found my health somewhat impaired.  I obtained
a furlough, and came to visit my cousin. The doctor recommended open
air exercise, and so I brought with me my motor-cycle, as I am fond of
that means of locomotion."

"I used to be," murmured Mr. Damon; "but I gave it up."

"After his machine climbed a tree," Tom explained, with a smile,
remembering how he had originally met Mr. Damon, and bought the damaged
machine from him, as told in the first volume of this series.

"So, when I got your letter," continued the General, "I naturally
jumped on my machine and came over. Now I find that it is all a hoax."

"I am very sorry, I assure you," said Tom. "We did have a sort of test
today; but it was a failure, owing to the fact that someone tampered
with my powder. From what you tell me, I am inclined to the belief that
the same person may have sent you that letter. Let me look at it
again," he requested.

Carefully he scanned it.

"I should say that was written in a sort of German hand; would you not
also?" he asked of Mr. Damon.

"I would, Tom."

"A German!" exclaimed General Waller.

At the mention of the word "German" Koku, the giant, who had entered
the room, to be stared at in amazement by the officer, exclaimed:

"That he, Master! That he!"

"What do you mean?" inquired Tom.

"German man give me stuff for to put in your powder. I 'member now, he
talk like Hans who make our garden here; and he say 'yah' just the same
like. That man German sure."

"What does this mean?" inquired the officer.

Quickly Tom told of the visit of an unknown man who had prevailed on
the simple-minded giant to "dope" Tom's new powder under the impression
that he was doing his master a favor. Then the flight of the spy on a
motor-cycle, just as the experiment failed, was related.

"We have a German gardener," went on Tom, "and Koku now recalls that
our mysterious visitor had the same sort of speech. This ought to give
us a clue."

"Let me see," murmured General Waller. "In the first place your test
fails--you learn, then, that your powder has been tampered with--you
see a man riding away in haste after having, in all likelihood, spied
on your work--your giant servant recalls the visit of a mysterious man,
and, when the word 'German' is pronounced in his hearing he recalls
that his visitor was of that nationality. So far so good.

"I come to this vicinity for my health. That fact, as are all such
regarding officers, was doubtless published in the Army and Navy
Journal, so it might easily become known to almost anyone. I receive a
letter which I think is from Tom Swift, asking me to attend the test.
As the distance is short I go, only to find that the letter has been
forged, presumably by a German.

"Question: Can the same German be the agent in both cases?"

"Bless my arithmetic! how concisely you put it!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.

"It is part of my training, I suppose," remarked the officer.  "But it
strikes me that if we find your German spy, Tom, we will find the man
who played the joke on me. And if I do find him--well, I think I shall
know how to deal with him," and General Waller assumed his
characteristic haughty attitude.

"I believe you are right, General," spoke Tom. "Though why any German
would want to prevent my experiments, or even damage my property, and
possibly injure my friends, I cannot understand."

"Nor can I," spoke the officer.

"I am sorry you have had your trouble for nothing," went on Tom. "And,
if you are in this vicinity when I conduct my next test, I shall be
glad to have you come. I will send word by Mr. Damon, and then there
will be no chance of a mistake."

"Thank you, Tom, I shall be glad to come. I do not know how long I shall
remain in this vicinity. If I knew where to look for the German I would
make a careful search. As it is, I shall turn this letter over to the
United States Secret Service, and see what its agents can do. And, Tom,
if you are annoyed again, let me know.  You are a sort of rival, so to
speak, but, after all, we are both working to serve Uncle Sam. I'll do
my best to protect you."

"Thank you, sir," replied Tom. "On my part, I shall keep a good
lookout. It will be a bold spy who gets near my shop after this.  I'm
going to put up my highly-charged protecting electric wires again. We
were just talking about them when you came in. Would you like to look
about here, General?"

"I would, indeed, Tom. Have you made your big gun yet?"

"No, but I am working on the plans. I want first to decide on the kind
of explosive I am to use, so I can make my gun strong enough to stand
it."

"A wise idea. I think there is where I made my mistake. I did not
figure carefully enough on the strength of material. The internal
pressure of the powder I used, as well as the muzzle velocity of my
projectile, were both greater than they should have been. Take a lesson
from my failure. But I am going to start on another gun soon, and--Tom
Swift--I am going to try to beat you!"

"All right, General," answered Tom, genially. "May the best gun win!"

"Bless my powder box!" cried Mr. Damon. "That's the way to talk."

General Waller was much interested in going about Tom's shop, and
expressed his surprise at the many inventions he saw. While ordnance
matters, big guns and high explosives were his hobby, nevertheless the
airships were a source of wonder to him.

"How do you do it, Tom?" he asked.

"Oh, by keeping at it," was the modest answer. "Then my good friends
here--Ned and Mr. Damon--help me."

"Bless my check book!" exclaimed the odd gentleman. "It is very little
help I give, Tom."

General Waller soon took his departure, promising to call again, to see
Tom's test if one were held. He also repeated his determination to set
the Secret Service men at work to discover the mysterious German.

"I can't imagine who would want to injure you or me, Tom Swift," he
said.

"Do you think they wanted to injure you, General?" asked Mr. Damon.

"It would seem so," remarked Ned. "That man doped Tom's powder, hoping
to make it so powerful that it would blow up everything.  Then he sends
word to the General to be present. If there had been a blow-up he would
have gone with it."

"Bless my gaiters, yes!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.

"Well, we'll see if we can ferret him out!" spoke the officer as he
took his leave.

Tom, Ned and the others talked the matter over at some length.

"I wonder if we could trace that man who rode away on the motor-cycle?"
said Ned.

"We'll try," decided Tom, energetically, and in the electric runabout,
that had once performed such a service to his father's bank, the young
inventor and his chum were soon traversing the road taken by the spy.
They got some traces of him--that is, several persons had seen him
pass--but that was all. So they had to record one failure at least.

"I wonder if the General himself could have sent that letter?" mused
Ned, as they returned home.

"What! To himself?" cried Tom, in amazement.

"He might have," went on Ned, coolly. "You see, Tom, he admits that he
was jealous of you. Now what is there to prevent him from hiring
someone to dope your powder, and then, to divert suspicion from
himself, faking up a letter and inviting himself to the blowout."

"But if he did that--which I don't believe--why would he come when
there was danger, in case his trick worked, of the whole place being
blown to kingdom come."

"Ah, but you notice he didn't arrive until after danger of an explosion
had passed," commented Ned.

"Oh, pshaw!" cried Tom. "I don't take any stock in that theory."

"Well, maybe not," replied Ned. "But it's worth thinking about.  I
believe if General Waller could prevent you from inventing your big
gun, he would."

The days that followed were busy ones for Tom. He worked on the powder
problem from morning to night, scoring many failures and only a few
successes. But he did not give up, and in the meanwhile drew tentative
plans for the big gun.

One evening, after a hard day's work, he went to the library where his
father was reading.

"Tom," said Mr. Swift, "do you remember that old fortune hunter, Alec
Peterson, who wanted me to go into that opal mine scheme?"

"Yes, Dad. What about him? Has he found it?"

"No, he writes to say he reached the island safely, and has been
working some time. He hasn't had any success yet in locating the mine;
but he hopes to find it in a week or so."

"That's just like him," murmured Tom. "Well, Dad, if you lose the ten
thousand dollars I guess I'll have to make it up to you, for it was on
my account that you made the investment."

"Well, you're worth it, Tom," replied his father, with a smile.




CHAPTER XII

A POWERFUL BLAST


"Look out with that box, Koku! Handle it as though it contained a dozen
eggs of the extinct great auk, worth about a thousand dollars apiece.

"Eradicate! Don't you dare stumble while you're carrying that tube. If
you do, you'll never do it again!"

"By golly, Massa Tom! I--I's gwine t' walk on mah tiptoes all de way!"

Thus Eradicate answered the young inventor, while the giant, Koku, who
was carrying a heavy case, nodded his head to show that he understood
the danger of his task.

"So you think you've got the right stuff this time, Tom?" asked Ned
Newton.

"I'm allowing myself to hope so, Ned."

"Bless my woodpile!" cried Mr. Damon. "I--I really think I'm getting
nervous."

It was one afternoon, about two weeks after Tom had made his first test
of the new powder. Now, after much hard work, and following many other
tests, some of which were more or less successful, he had reached the
point where he believed he was on the threshold of success. He had
succeeded in making a new explosive that, in the preliminary tests, in
which only a small quantity was used, gave promise of being more
powerful than any Tom had ever experimented with--his own or the
product of some other inventor.

And his experiments had not always been harmless. Once he came within a
narrow margin of blowing up the shop and himself with it, and on
another occasion some of the slow-burning powder, failing to explode,
had set ablaze a shack in which he was working.

Only for the prompt action of Koku, Tom might have been seriously
injured. As it was he lost some valuable patterns and papers.

But he had gone on his way, surmounting failure after failure, until
now he was ready for the supreme test. This was to be the explosion of
a large quantity of the powder in a specially prepared steel tube of
great thickness. It was like a miniature cannon, but, unlike the first
small one, where the test had failed, this one would carry a special
projectile, that would be aimed at an armor plate set up on a big hill.

Tom's hope was that this big blast would show such pressure in
foot-tons, and give such muzzle velocity to the projectile, and at the
same time such penetrating power, that he would be justified in taking
it as the basis of his explosive, and using it in the big gun he
intended to make.

The preliminaries had been completed. The special steel tube had been
constructed, and mounted on a heavy carriage in a distant part of the
Swift grounds. A section of armor plate, a foot and a half in
thickness, had been set up at the proper distance. A new projectile,
with a hard, penetrating point, had been made--a sort of miniature of
the one Tom hoped to use in his giant cannon.

Now the young inventor and his friends were on their way to the scene
of the test, taking the powder and other necessaries, including the
primers, with them. Tom, Ned and Mr. Damon had some of the gauges to
register the energy expended by the improvised cannon. There were
charts to be filled in, and other details to be looked after.

"So General Waller won't be here?" remarked Ned, as they walked along,
Tom keeping a watchful eye on Koku.

"No," was the reply. "He has gone back to Sandy Hook. He wrote that his
health was better, and that he wanted to resume work on a new type of
gun."

"I guess he's afraid you'll beat him out, Tom," laughed Ned.  "You take
my advice, and look out for General Waller."

"Nonsense! I say, Rad! Look out with those primers!"

"I'se lookin' out, Massa Tom. Golly, I don't laik dis yeah job at all!
I--I guess I'd better be gittin' at dat whitewashin', Massa Tom. Dat
back fence suah needs a coat mighty bad."

"Never you mind about the whitewashing, Rad. You just stick around here
for a while. I may need you to sit on the cannon to hold it down."

"Sit on a cannon, Massa Tom! Say, looky heah now! You jest take dese
primary things from dish yeah coon. I--I'se got t' go!"

"Why, what's the matter, Rad? Surely you're not afraid; are you?" and
Tom winked at Ned.

"No, Massa Tom, I'se not prezactly 'skeered, but I done jest 'membered
dat I didn't gib mah mule Boomerang any oats t'day, an' he's suahly
gwine t' be desprit mad at me fo' forgettin' dat. I--I'd better go!"

"Nonsense, Rad! I was only fooling. You can go as soon as we get to my
private proving grounds, if you like. But you'll have to carry those
primers, for all the rest of us have our hands full. Only be careful of
'em!"

"I--I will, Massa Tom."

They kept on, and it was noticed that Mr. Damon gave nervous glances
from time to time in the direction of Koku, who was carrying the box of
powder. The giant himself, however, did not seem to know the meaning of
fear. He carried the box, which contained enough explosive to blow them
all into fragments, with as much composure as though it contained
loaves of bread.

"Now you can go, Rad," announced Tom, when they reached the lonely
field where, pointing toward a big hill, was the little cannon.

"Good, Massa Tom!" cried the colored man, and from the way in which he
hurried off no one would ever suspect him of having rheumatic joints.

"Say, that stuff looks just like Swiss cheese," remarked Ned, as Tom
opened the box of explosive. It would be incorrect to call it powder,
for it had no more the appearance of gunpowder, or any other "powder,"
than, as Ned said, swiss cheese.

And, indeed, the powerful stuff bore a decided resemblance to that
peculiar product of the dairy. It was in thin sheets, with holes
pierced through it here and there, irregularly.

"The idea is," Tom explained, "to make a quick-burning explosive. I
want the concussion to be scattered through it all at once. It is set
off by concussion, you see," he went on. "A sort of cartridge is buried
in the middle of it, after it has been inserted in the cannon breech.
The cartridge is exploded by a primer, which responds to an electric
current. The thin plates, with holes corresponding to the centre hole
in a big grain of the hexagonal powder, will, I hope, cause the stuff
to burn quickly, and give a tremendous pressure. Now we'll put some in
the steel tube, and see what happens."

Even Tom was a little nervous as he prepared for this latest test. But
he was not nervous enough to drop any of those queer, cheese-like
slabs. For, though he knew that a considerable percussion was needed to
set them off, it would not do to take chances. High explosives do not
always act alike, even under the same given conditions. What might with
perfect safety be done at one time, could not be repeated at another.
Tom knew this, and was very careful.

The powder, as I shall occasionally call it for the sake of
convenience, though it was not such in the strict sense of the
word--the powder was put in the small cannon, together with the primer.
Then the wires were attached to it, and extended off for some distance.

"But we won't attach the battery until the last moment," Tom said. "I
don't want a premature explosion."

The projectile was also put in, and Tom once more looked to see that
the armor plate was in place. Then he adjusted the various gauges to
get readings of the power and energy created by his new explosive.

"Well, I guess we're all ready," he announced to his friends.  "I'll
hook on the battery now, and we'll get off behind that other hill. I
had Koku make a sort of cave there--a miniature bomb-proof, that will
shelter us."

"Do you think the blast will be powerful enough to make it necessary?"
asked Mr. Damon.

"It will, if this larger quantity of explosive acts anything like the
small samples I set off," replied the young inventor.

The electric wires were carried behind the protecting hill, whither
they all retired.

"Here she goes!" exclaimed Tom, after a pause.

His thumb pressed the electric button, and instantly the ground shook
with the tremor of a mighty blast, while a deafening sound reared about
them. The earth trembled, and there was a big sheet of flame, seen even
in the powerful sunlight.

"Something happened, anyhow!" yelled Tom above the reverberating echoes.




CHAPTER XIII

CASTING THE CANNON


"Come on!" yelled Ned. "We'll see how this experiment came out!" and he
started to run from beneath the shelter of the hill.

"Hold on!" shouted Tom, laying a restraining hand on his chum's
shoulder.

"Why, what's the matter?" asked Ned in surprise.

"Some of that powder may not have exploded," went on the young
inventor. "From the sound made I should say the gun burst, and, if it
did, that gelatin is bound to be scattered about. There may be a mass
of it burning loose somewhere, and it may go off. It ought not to, if
my theory about it being harmless in the open is correct, but the
trouble is that it's only a theory. Wait a few seconds."

Anxiously they lingered, the echoes of the blast still in their ears,
and a peculiar smell in their nostrils.

"But there's no smoke," said Mr. Damon. "Bless my spyglass! I always
thought there was smoke at an explosion."

"This is a sort of smokeless powder," explained Tom. "It throws off a
slight vapor when it is ignited, but not much. I guess it's safe to go
out now. Come on!"

He dropped the pushbutton connected with the igniting battery, and,
followed by the others, raced to the scene of the experiment. A curious
sight met their eyes.

A great hole had been torn in the hillside, and another where the
improvised gun had stood. The gun itself seemed to have disappeared.

"Why--why--where is it?" asked Ned.

"Burst to pieces I guess," replied Tom. "I was afraid that charge was a
bit too heavy."

"No, here it is!" shouted Mr. Damon, circling off to one side.  "It's
been torn from the carriage, and partly buried in the ground," and he
indicated a third excavation in the earth.

It was as he had said. The terrific blast had sheared the gun from its
temporary carriage, thrown it into the air, and it had come down to
bury itself in the soft ground. The carriage had torn loose from the
concrete base, and was tossed off in another direction.

"Is the gun shattered?" asked Tom, anxious to know how the weapon had
fared. It was, in a sense, a sort of small model of the giant cannon he
intended to have cast.

"The breech is cracked a little," answered Mr. Damon, who was examining
it; "but otherwise it doesn't seem to be much damaged."

"Good," cried Tom. "Another steel jacket will remedy that defect.  I
guess I'm on the right road at last. But now to see what became of that
armor plate."

"Dinner plate not here," spoke Koku, who could not understand how there
could be two kind of plates in the world. "Dinner plate gone, but big
hole here, and he indicated one in the side of the hill.

"I expect that is where the armor plate is," said Tom, trying not to
laugh at the mistake of his giant servant. "Take a look in there, Koku,
and, if you can get hold of it, pull it out for us.  I'm afraid the
piece of nickel-steel armor proved too much for my projectile. But
we'll have a look."

Koku disappeared into the miniature cave that had been torn in the side
of the bill. It was barely large enough to allow him to go in. But Tom
knew none other of them could hope to loosen the piece of steel,
imbedded as it must be in the solid earth.

Presently they heard Koku grunting and groaning. He seemed to be having
quite a struggle.

"Can you get it, Koku?" asked Tom. "Or shall I send for picks and
shovels."

"Me get, Master," was the muffled answer.

Then came a shout, as though in anger Koku had dared the buried plate
to defy him. There was a shower of earth at the mouth of the cave, and
the giant staggered out with the heavy piece of armor plate. At the
sight of it Tom uttered a cry.

"Look!" he shouted. "My projectile went part way through and then
carried the plate with it into the side of the hill. Talk about a
powerful explosive! I've struck it, all right!"

It was as he had said. The projectile, driven with almost irresistible
force, had bitten its way through the armor plate, but a projection at
the base of the shell had prevented it from completely passing through.
Then, with the energy almost unabated, the projectile had torn the
plate loose and hurled it, together with its own body, into the solid
earth of the hillside.  There, as Koku held them up, they could all see
the shell imbedded in the plate, the point sticking out on the other
side, as a boy might spear an apple with a sharp stick.

"Bless my spectacle case!" cried Mr. Damon. "This is the greatest ever!"

"It sure is," agreed Ned. "Tom, my boy, I guess you can now make the
longest shots on record."

"I can as soon as I get my giant cannon, perhaps," admitted the young
inventor. "I think I have solved the problem of the explosive. Now to
work on the cannon."

An examination of the gauges, which, being attached to the cannon and
plate by electric wires, were not damaged when the blast came, showed
that Tom's wildest hopes had been confirmed.  He had the most powerful
explosive ever made--or at least as far as he had any knowledge, and he
had had samples of all the best makes.

Concerning Tom's powder, or explosive, I will only say that he kept the
formula of it secret from all save his father. All that he would admit,
when the government experts asked him about it, later, was that the
base was not nitro-glycerine, but that this entered into it. He agreed,
however, in case his gun was accepted by the government, to disclose
the secret to the ordnance officers.

But Tom's work was only half done. It was one thing to have a powerful
explosive, but there must be some means of utilizing it safely--some
cannon in which it could be fired to send a projectile farther than any
cannon had ever sent one. And to do this much work was necessary.

Tom figured and planned, far into the night, for many weeks after that.
He had to begin all over again, working from the basis of the power of
his new explosive. And he had many new problems to figure out.

But finally he had constructed--on paper--a gun that was to his liking.
The most exhaustive figuring proved that it had a margin of safety that
would obviate all danger of its bursting, even with an accidental
over-charge.

"And the next thing is to get the gun cast," said Tom to Ned one day.

"Are you going to do it in your shops?" his chum asked.

"No; it would be out of the question for me. I haven't the facilities.
I'm going to give the contract to the Universal Steel Company. We'll
pay them a visit in a day or two."

But even the great facilities of the steel corporation proved almost
inadequate for Tom's giant cannon. When he showed the drawings, on
which he had already secured a patent, the manager balked.

"We can't cast that gun here!" he said.

"Oh, yes, you can!" declared Tom, who had inspected the plant.  "I'll
show you how."

"Why, we haven't a mould big enough for the central core," was another
objection.

"Then we'll make one," declared Tom "We'll dig a pit in the earth, and
after it is properly lined we can make the cast there."

"I never thought of that!" exclaimed the manager. "Perhaps it can be
done."

"Of course it can!" cried Tom. "Do you think you can shrink on the
jackets, and rifle the central tube?"

"Oh, yes, we can do that. The initial cast was what stumped me.  But
we'll go ahead now."

"And you can wind the breech with wire, and braze it on; can't you?"
persisted Tom.

"Yes, I think so. Are you going to have a wire-wound gun?"

"That, in combination with a steel-jacketed one. I'm going to take no
chances with 'Swiftite'!" laughed Tom, for so he had named his new
explosive, in honor of his father, who had helped him with the formula.

"It must be mighty powerful," exclaimed the manager.

"It is," said Tom, simply.

I am not going to tire my readers with the details leading up to the
casting of Tom's big cannon. Sufficient to say that the general plan,
in brief, was this: A hole would be dug in the earth, in the center of
the largest casting shop--a hole as deep as the gun was to be long.
This was about one hundred feet, though the gun, when finished, would
be somewhat shorter than this. An allowance was to be made for cutting.

In the center of this hole would be a small "core" made of asbestos and
concrete mixed. Around this would be poured the molten steel from great
caldrons. It would flow into the hole.  The sides of earth--lined with
fire-clay--would hold it in, and the middle core would make a hole
throughout the length of the central part of the gun. Afterward this
hole would be bored and rifled to the proper calibre.

After this central part was done, steel jackets or sleeves would be put
on, red-hot, and allowed to shrink. Then would come a winding of wire,
to further strengthen the tube, and then more sleeves or jackets. In
this way the gun would be made very strong.

As the greatest pressure would come at the breech, or in the powder
chamber there, the gun would be thickest at this point, decreasing in
size to the muzzle.

It took many weary weeks to get ready for the first cast, but finally
Tom received word that it was to be made, and with Ned, and Mr. Damon,
he proceeded to the plant of the steel concern.

There was some delay, but finally the manager gave the word.  Tom and
his friends, standing on a high gallery, watched the tapping of the
combined furnaces that were to let the molten steel into the caldrons.
There were several of these, and their melted contents were to be
poured into the mould at the same time.

Out gushed the liquid steel, giving off a myriad of sparks. The
workers, as well as the visitors, had to wear violet-tinted glasses to
protect their eyes from the glare.

"Hoist away!" cried the manager, and the electric cranes started off
with the caldrons of liquid fire, weighing many tons.

"Pour!" came the command, and into the pit in the earth splashed the
melted steel that was to form the big cannon. From each caldron there
issued a stream of liquid metal of intense heat. There were numerous
explosions as the air bubbles burst--explosions almost like a battery
in action.

"So far so good!" exclaimed the manager, with a sigh of relief as the
last of the melted stuff ran into the mould. "Now, when it cools, which
won't be for some days, we'll see what we have."

"I hope it contains no flaws," spoke Tom, "That is the worst of big
guns--you never can tell when a flaw will develop. But I hope--"

Tom was interrupted by the sound of a dispute at one of the outer doors
of the shop.

"But I tell you I must go in--I belong here in!" a voice cried.  It had
a German accent, and at the sound of it Tom and Ned looked at each
other.

"Who is there?" asked the manager sharply of the foreman..

"Oh, a crazy German. He belongs in one of the other shops, and I guess
he's mixed up. He thinks he belongs here. I sent him about his
business."

"That is right," remarked the manager. "I gave orders, at your
request," he said to Tom, "that no one but the men in this part of the
plant were to be present at the casting. I can't understand what that
fellow wanted."

"I think I can," murmured Tom, to himself.




CHAPTER XIV

A NIGHT INTRUDER


"Tom, aren't you going to try to get a look at that German?" whispered
Ned, as he and his chum came down from the elevated gallery at the
conclusion of the cast. "I mean the one who tried to get in!"

"I'd like to, Ned, but I don't want to arouse any suspicion," replied
Tom. "I've got to stay here a while yet, and arrange about shrinking on
the jackets, after the core is rifled. I don't see how--"

"I'll slip out and see if I can get a peep at him," went on Ned. "If
it's like the one Koku described, we'll know that he's still after you."

"All right, Ned. Do as you like, only be cautious."

"I will," promised Tom's chum. So, while the young inventor was busy
arranging details with the steel manager, Ned slipped out of a side
door of the casting shop, and looked about the yard. He saw a little
group of workmen surrounding a man who appeared to be angry.

"I dell you dot is my shop!" one of the men was heard to exclaim--a man
whom the others appeared to dragging away with main force.

"And I tell you, Baudermann, that you're mistaken!" insisted one,
evidently a foreman. "I told you to work in the brazing department.
What do you want to try to force your way into the heavy casting
department for? Especially when we're doing one of the biggest jobs
that we ever handled--making the new Swift cannon."

"Oh, iss dot vot vas going on in dere?" asked the man addressed as
Baudermann. "Shure den, I makes a misdake. I ask your pardon, Herr
Blackwell. I to mine own apartment will go. But I dinks my foreman
sends me to dot place," and he indicated the casting shop from which he
had just been barred.

"All right!" exclaimed the foreman. "Don't make that mistake again, or
I'll dock you for lost time."

"Only just a twisted German employee, I guess," thought Ned, as he was
about to turn back. "I was mistaken. He probably didn't understand
where he was sent."

He passed by the group of men, who, laughing and jeering at the German,
were showing him where to go. He seemed to be a new hand in the works.

But as Ned passed he got one look at the man's face. Instead of a
stupid countenance, for one instant he had a glimpse of the sharpest,
brightest eyes he had ever looked into. And they were hard, cruel eyes,
too, with a glint of daring in them. And, as Ned glanced at his figure,
he thought he detected a trace of military stiffness--none of the
stoop-shouldered slouch that is always the mark of a moulder. The
fellow's hands, too, though black and grimy, showed evidences of care
under the dirt, and Ned was sure his uncouth language was assumed.

"I'd like to know more about you," murmured Ned, but the man, with one
sharp glance at him, passed on, seemingly to his own department of the
works.

"Well, what was it?" asked Tom, as his chum rejoined him.

"Nothing very definite, but I'm sure there was something back of it
all, Tom. I wouldn't be surprised but what that fellow--whoever he
was--whatever his object was--hoped to get in to see the casting;
either to get some idea about your new gun, or to do some desperate
deed to spoil it."

"Do you think that, Ned?"

"I sure do. You've got to be on your guard, Tom."

"I will. But I wonder what object anyone could have in spoiling my gun?"

"So as to make his own cannon stand in a better light."

"Still thinking of General Waller, are you?"

"I am, Tom."

There was nothing more to be done at present, and, as it would take
several days for the big mass of metal to properly cool, Tom, Ned and
Mr. Damon returned to Shopton.

There Tom busied himself over many things. Ned helping him, and Mr.
Damon lending an occasional hand. Koku was very useful, for often his
great strength did what the combined efforts of Tom and his friends
could not accomplish.

As for Eradicate, he "puttered around," doing all he could, which was
not much, for he was getting old. Still Tom would not think of
discharging him, and it was pitiful to see the old colored man try to
do things for the young inventor--tasks that were beyond his strength.
But if Koku offered to help, Eradicate would draw himself up, and
exclaim:

"Git away fom heah! I guess dish yeah coon ain't forgot how t' wait on
Massa Tom. Go 'way, giant. I ain't so big as yo'-all, but I know de
English language, which is mo' 'n yo' all does. Go on an' lemme be!"

Koku, good naturedly, gave place, for he, too, felt for Eradicate.

"Well, Ned," remarked Tom one day, after the visit of the postman, "I
have a letter from the steel people. They are going to take the gun out
of the mould tomorrow, and start to rifle it.  We'll take a run down in
the airship, and see how it looks. I must take those drawings, too,
that show the new plan of shrinking on the jackets. I guess I'll keep
them in my room, so I won't forget them."

Tom and Ned occupied adjoining and connecting apartments, for, of late,
Ned had taken up his residence with his chum. It was shortly after
midnight that Ned was awakened by hearing someone prowling about his
room. At first he thought it was Tom, for the shorter way to the bath
lay through Ned's apartment, but when the lad caught the flash of a
pocket electric torch he knew it could not be Tom.

"Who's there?" cried Ned sharply, sitting up in bed.

Instantly the light went out, and there was silence.

"Who's there?" cried Ned again.

This time he thought he heard a stealthy footstep.

"What is it?" called Tom from his chamber.

"Someone is in here!" exclaimed Ned. "Look out, Tom!"




CHAPTER XV

READY FOR THE TEST


Tom Swift acted promptly, for he realized the necessity. The events
that had hedged him about since he had begun work on his giant cannon
made him suspicious. He did not quite know whom to suspect, nor the
reasons for their actions, but he had been on the alert for several
days, and was now ready to act.

The instant Ned answered as he did, and warned Tom, the young inventor
slid his hand under his pillow and pressed an auxiliary electric switch
he had concealed there. In a moment the rooms were flooded with a
bright light, and the two lads had a momentary glimpse of an intruder
making a dive for the window.

"There he is, Tom!" cried Ned.

"What do you want?" demanded Tom, instinctively. But the intruder did
not stay to answer.

Instead, he made a dive for the casement. It was one story above the
ground, but this did not cause him any hesitation. It was summer, and
the window was open, though a wire mosquito net barred the aperture.
This was no hindrance to the man, however.

As Ned and Tom leaped from their beds, Ned catching up the heavy, empty
water pitcher as a weapon, and Tom an old Indian war club that served
as one of the ornaments of his room, the fellow, with one kick, burst
the screen.

Then, clambering out on the sill, he dropped from sight, the boys
hearing him land with a thud on the turf below. It was no great leap,
though the fall must have jarred him considerably, for the boys heard
him grunt, and then groan as if in pain.

"Quick!" cried Ned. "Ring the bell for Koku, Ned. I want to capture
this fellow if possible."

"Who is he?" asked Ned.

"I don't know, but we'll see if we can size him up. Signal for the
giant!"

There was an electric bell from Tom's room to the apartment of his big
servant, and a speaking tube as well. While Ned was pressing the
button, and hastily telling the giant what had happened, urging him to
get in pursuit of the intruder, Tom had taken from his bureau a
powerful, portable, electric flash lamp, of the same variety as that
used by the would-be thief. Only Tom's was provided with a tungsten
filament, which gave a glaring white pencil of light, increased by
reflectors.

And in this glare the young inventor saw, speeding away over the lawn,
the form of a big man.

"There he goes, Ned!" he shouted.

"So I see. Koku will be right on the job. I told him not to dress. Can
you make out who the fellow is?"

"No, his back is toward us. But he's limping, all right. I guess that
jump jarred him up a bit. Where is Koku?"

"There he goes now!" exclaimed Ned, as a figure leaped from the side
door of the house--a gigantic figure, scantily clad.

"Get to him, Koku!" cried Tom.

"Me git, Master!" was the reply, and the giant sped on.

"Let's go out and lend a hand!" suggested Ned, looking at the water
pitcher as though wondering what he had intended to do with it.

"I'm with you," agreed Tom. "Only I want to get into something a little
more substantial than my pajamas."

As the two lads hurriedly slipped on some clothing they heard the voice
of Mr. Swift calling:

"What is it, Tom? Has anything happened?"

"Nothing much," was the reassuring answer. "It was a near-happening,
only Ned woke up in time. Someone was in our rooms--a burglar, I guess."

"A burglar! Good land a massy!" cried Eradicate, who had also gotten up
to see what the excitement was about. "Did you cotch him, Massa Tom?"

"No, Rad; but Koku is after him."

"Koku? Huh, he nebber cotch anybody. I'se got t' git out dere mahse'f!
Koku? Hu! I s'pects it's dat no-'count cousin ob mine, arter mah
chickens ag'in! I'll lambaste dat coon when I gits him, so I will. I'll
cotch him for yo'-all, Massa Tom," and, muttering to himself, the aged
colored man endeavored to assume the activity of former years.

"Hark!" exclaimed Ned, as he and Tom were about ready to take part in
the chase. "What's that noise, Tom?"

"Sounds like a motor-cycle."

"It is. That fellow--"

"It's the same chap!" interrupted Tom. "No use trying to chase him on
that speedy machine. He's a mile away from here by now. He must have
had it in waiting, ready for use. But come on, anyhow."

"Where are you going?"

"Out to the shop. I want to see if he got in there."

"But the charged wires?"

"He may have cut them. Come on."

It was as Tom had suspected. The deadly, charged wires, that formed a
protecting cordon about his shops, had been cut, and that by an
experienced hand, probably by someone wearing rubber gloves, who must
have come prepared for that very purpose. During the night the current
was supplied to the wires from a storage battery, through an
intensifying coil, so that the charge was only a little less deadly
than when coming direct from a dynamo.

"This looks bad, Tom," said Ned.

"It does, but wait until we get inside and look around. I'm glad I took
my gun-plans to the house with me."

But a quick survey of the shop did not reveal any damage done, nor had
anything been taken, as far as Tom could tell. The office of his main
shop was pretty well upset, and it looked as though the intruder had
made a search for something, and, not finding it, had entered the house.

"It was the gun-plans he was after, all right," decided Tom.  "And I
believe it was the same fellow who has been making trouble for me right
along."

"You mean General Waller?"

"No, that German--the one who was at the machine shop."

"But who is he--what is his object?"

"I don't know who he is, but he evidently wants my plans.  Probably
he's a disappointed inventor, who has been trying to make a gun
himself, and can't. He wants some of my ideas, but he isn't going to
get them. Well, we may as well get back to bed, after I connect these
wires again. I must think up a plan to conceal them, so they can't be
cut."

While Tom and Ned were engaged on this, Koku came back, much out of
breath, to report:

"Me not git, Master. He git on bang-bang machine and go off--puff!"

"So we heard, Koku. Never mind, we'll get him yet."

"Hu! Ef I had de fust chanst at him, I'd a cotched dat coon suah!"
declared Eradicate, following the giant. "Koku he done git in mah way!"
and he glared indignantly at the big man.

"That's all right, Rad," consoled Tom. "You did your best. Now we'll
all get to bed. I don't believe he'll come back." Nor did he.

Tom and Ned were up at the first sign of daylight, for they wanted to
go to the steel works, some miles away, in time to see the cannon taken
out of the mould, and preparations made for boring the rifle channels.
They found the manager, anxiously waiting for them.

"Some of my men are as interested in this as you are," he said to the
young inventor. "A number of them declare that the cast will be a
failure, while some think it will be a success."

"I think it will be all right, if my plans were followed," said Tom.
"However, we'll see. By the way, what became of that German who made
such a disturbance the day we cast the core?"

"Oh, you mean Baudermann?"

"Yes."

"Why, it's rather queer about him. The foreman of the shop where he was
detailed, saw that he was an experienced man, in spite of his seemingly
stupid ways, and he was going to promote him, only he never came back."

"Never came back? What do you mean?"

"I mean the day after the cast of the gun was made he disappeared, and
never came back."

"Oh!" exclaimed Tom. He said nothing more, but he believed that he
understood the man's actions. Failing to obtain the desired
information, or perhaps failing to spoil the cast, he realized that his
chances were at an end for the present.

With great care the gun was hoisted from the mould. More eyes than
Tom's anxiously regarded it as it came up out of the casting pit.

"Bless my buttonhook!" cried Mr. Damon, who had gone with the lads.
"It's a monster; isn't it?"

"Oh, wait until you see it with the jackets on!" exclaimed Ned, who had
viewed the completed drawings. "Then you'll open your eyes."

The great piece of hollow steel tubing was lifted to the boring lathe.
Then Tom and the manager examined it for superficial flaws.

"Not one!" cried the manager in delight.

"Not that I can see," added Tom.. "It's a success--so far."

"And that was the hardest part of the work," went on the manager of the
steel plant. "I can almost guarantee you success from now on."

And, as far as the rifling was concerned, this was true. I will not
weary you with the details of how the great core of Tom Swift's giant
cannon was bored. Sufficient to say that, after some annoying delays,
caused by breaks in the machinery, which had never before been used on
such a gigantic piece of work, the rifling was done. After the jackets
had been shrunk on, it would be rifled again, to make it true in case
of any shrinkage.

Then came the almost Herculean task of shrinking on the great red-hot
steel jackets and wire-windings, that would add strength to the great
cannon. To do this the central core was set up on end, and the jackets,
having been heated in an immense furnace, were hoisted by a great crane
over the core, and lowered on it as one would lower his napkin ring
over the rolled up napkin.

It took weeks of hard work to do this, and Tom and Ned, with Mr. Damon
occasionally for company, remained almost constantly at the plant. But
finally the cannon was completed, the rifling was done over again to
correct any imperfections, and the manager said:

"Your cannon is completed, Mr. Swift. I want to congratulate you on it.
Never have we done such a stupendous piece of work. Only for your plans
we could not have finished it. It was too big a problem for us. Your
cannon is completed, but, of course, it will have to be mounted. What
about the carriage?"

"I have plans for that," replied Tom; "but for the present I am going
to put it on a temporary one. I want to test the gun now.  It looks all
right, but whether it will shoot accurately, and for a greater distance
than any cannon has ever sent a projectile before, is yet to be seen."

"Where will you test it?"

"That is what we must decide. I don't want to take it too far from
here. Perhaps you can select a place where it would be safe to fire it,
say with a range of about thirty miles."

"Thirty miles! why, my dear sir--"

"Oh, I'm not altogether sure that it will go that distance,"
interrupted Tom, with a smile; "but I'm going to try for it, and I want
to be on the safe side. Is there such a place near here?"

"Yes, I guess we can pick one out. I'll let you know."

"Then I must get back and arrange for my powder supply," went on the
young inventor. "We'll soon test my giant cannon!"

"Bless my ear-drums!" cried Mr. Damon. "I hope nothing bursts.  For if
that goes up, Tom Swift--"

"I'm not making it to burst," put in Tom, with a smile. "Don't worry.
Now, Ned, back to Shopton to get ready for the test."




CHAPTER XVI

A WARNING


"Whew, how it rains!" exclaimed Ned, as he looked out of the window.

"And it doesn't seem to show any signs of letting up," remarked Tom.
"It's been at it nearly a week now, and it is likely to last a week
longer."

"It's beastly," declared his chum. "How can you test your gun in this
weather?"

"I can't. I've got to wait for it to clear."

"Bless my rubber boots! it's just got to stop some time," declared Mr.
Damon. "Don't worry, Tom."

"But I don't like this delay. I have heard that General Waller has
perfected a new gun--and it's a fine one, from all accounts.  He has
the proving grounds at Sandy Hook to test his on, and I'm handicapped
here. He may beat me out."

"Oh, I hope not, Tom!" exclaimed Ned. "I'm going to see what the
weather reports say," and he went to hunt up a paper.

It was several weeks after the completion of Tom's giant cannon. In the
meanwhile the gun had been moved by the steel company to a
little-inhabited part of New York State, some miles from the plant. The
gun had been mounted on an improvised carriage, and now Tom and his
friends were waiting anxiously for a chance to try it.

The work was not complete, for the steel company employees had been
hampered by the rain. Never before, it seemed, had there been so much
water coming down from the clouds. Nearly every day was misty, with
gradations from mere drizzles to heavy downpours.  There were
occasional clear stretches, however, and during them the men worked.

A few more days of clear weather would be needed before the gun could
be fastened securely to the carriage, and then Tom could fire one of
the great projectiles that had been cast for it. Not until then would
he know whether or not his cannon was going to be a success.

Meanwhile nothing more had been heard or seen of the spy. He appeared
to have given up his attempts to steal Tom's secret, or to spoil his
plans, if such was his object.

The place of the test, as I have said, was in a deserted spot.  On one
side of a great valley the gun was being set up. Its muzzle pointed up
the valley, toward the side of a mountain, into which the gigantic
projectile could plow its way without doing any damage. Tom was going
to fire two kinds of cannon balls--a solid one, and one containing an
explosive.

The gun was so mounted that the muzzle could be elevated or depressed,
or swung from side to side. In this way the range could be varied. Tom
estimated that the greatest possible range would be thirty miles. It
could not be more than that, he decided, and he hoped it would not be
much less. This extreme range could be attained by elevating the gun to
exactly the proper pitch. Of course, any shorter range could, within
certain limits, also be reached.

The gun was pointed slantingly up the valley, and there was ample room
to attain the thirty-mile range without doing any damage.

At the head of the valley, some miles from where the giant cannon was
mounted, was an immense dam, built recently by a water company for
impounding a stream and furnishing a supply of drinking water for a
distant city. At the other end of the valley was the thriving village
of Preston. A railroad ran there, and it was to Preston station that
Tom's big gun had been sent, to be transported afterward, on specially
made trucks, drawn by powerful autos, to the place where it was now
mounted.

Tom had been obliged to buy a piece of land on which to build the
temporary carriage, and also contract for a large slice of the opposite
mountain, as a target against which to fire his projectiles.

The valley, as I have said, was desolate. It was thickly wooded in
spots, and in the centre, near the big dam, which held back the waters
of an immense artificial lake, was a great hill, evidently a relic of
some glacial epoch. This hill was a sort of division between two
valleys.

Tom, Ned, Mr. Damon, with Koku, and some of the employees of the steel
company, had hired a deserted farmhouse not far from the place where
the gun was being mounted. In this they lived, while Tom directed
operations.

"The paper says 'clear' tomorrow," read Ned, on his return.  "'Clear,
with freshening winds.'"

"That means rain, with no wind at all," declared Tom, with a sigh.
"Well, it can't be helped. As Mr. Damon says, it will clear some time."

"Bless my overshoes!" exclaimed the odd gentleman. "It always has
cleared; hasn't it?"

No one could deny this.

There came a slackening in the showers, and Tom and Ned, donning
raincoats, went out to see how the work was progressing.  They found
the men from the steel concern busy at the great piece of engineering.

"How are you coming on?" asked Tom of the foreman.

"We could finish it in two days if this rain would only let up,"
replied the man.

"Well, let's hope that it will," observed Tom.

"If it doesn't, there's likely to be trouble up above," went on the
foreman, nodding in the direction of the great dam.

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that the water is getting too high. The dam is weakening, I
heard."

"Is that so? Why, I thought they had made it to stand any sort of a
flood."

"They evidently didn't count on one like this. They've got the engineer
who built it up there, and they're doing their best to strengthen it. I
also heard that they're preparing to dynamite it to open breeches here
and there in it, in case it is likely to give way suddenly."

"You don't mean it! Say, if it does go out with a rush it will wipe out
the village."

"Yes, but it can't hurt us," went on the foreman. "We're too high up on
the side of the hill. Even if the dam did burst, if the course of the
water could be changed, to send it down that other valley, it would do
no harm, for there are no settlements over there," and he pointed to
the distant hill.

It was near this hill that Tom intended to direct his projectiles, and
on the other side of it was another valley, running at right angles to
the one crossed by the dam.

As the foreman had said, if the waters (in case the dam burst) could be
turned into this transverse valley, the town could be saved.

"But it would take considerable digging to open a way through that side
of the mountain, into the other valley," went on the man.

"Yes," said Tom, and then he gave the matter no further thought, for
something came up that needed his attention.

"Have you your explosive here?" asked the foreman of the young inventor
the next day, when the weather showed signs of clearing.

"Yes, some of it," said Tom. "I have another supply in a safe place in
the village. I didn't want to bring too much here until the gun was to
be fired. I can easily get it if we need it. Jove!  I wish it would
clear. I want to get out in my Humming Bird, but I can't if this keeps
up." Tom had brought one of his speedy little airships with him to
Preston.

The following day the clouds broke a little, and on the next the sun
shone. Then the work on the gun went on apace. Tom and his friends were
delighted.

"Well, I think we can try a shot tomorrow!" announced Tom with delight
on the evening of the first clear day, when all hands had worked at
double time.

"Bless my powder-horn!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "You don't mean it!"

"Yes, the gun is all in place," went on the young inventor. "Of course,
it's only a temporary carriage, and not the disappearing one I shall
eventually use. But it will do. I'm going to try a shot tomorrow.
Everything is in readiness."

There came a knock on the door of the room Tom had fitted up as an
office in the old farmhouse.

"Who is it?" he asked.

"Me--Koku," was the answer.

"Well, what do you want, Koku?"

"Man here say him must see Master."

Tom and Ned looked at each other, suspicion in their eyes.

"Maybe it's that spy again," whispered Ned.

"If it is, we'll be ready for him," murmured his chum. "Show him in,
Koku, and you come in too."

But the man who entered at once disarmed suspicion. He was evidently a
workman from the dam above, and his manner was strangely excited.

"You folks had better get out of here!" he exclaimed.

"Why?" asked Tom, wondering what was going to happen.

"Why? Because our dam is going to burst within a few hours.  I've been
sent to warn the folks in town in time to let them take to the hills.
You'd better move your outfit. The dam can't last twenty-four hours
longer!"




CHAPTER XVII

THE BURSTING DAM


"Bless my fountain pen!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "You don't mean it!"

"I sure do!" went on the man who had brought the startling news. "And
the folks down below aren't going to have any more time than they need
to get out of the way. They'll have to lose some of their goods, I
reckon. But I thought I'd stop on my way down and warn you. You'd
better be getting a hustle on."

"It's very kind of you," spoke Tom; "but I don't fancy we are in any
danger."

"No danger!" cried the man. "Say, when that water begins to sweep-down
here nothing on earth can stop it. That big gun of yours, heavy as it
is, will be swept away like a straw, I know--I saw the Johnstown flood!"

"But we're so high up on the side of the hill, that the water won't
come here," put in Ned. "We had that all figured out when we heard the
dam was weak. We're not in any danger; do you think so, Tom?"

"Well, I hardly do, or I would not have set the gun where I did. Tell
me," he went on to the man, "is there any way of opening the dam, to
let the water out gradually?"

"There is, but the openings are not enough with such a flood as this.
The engineers never counted on so much rain. It's beyond any they ever
had here. You see, there was a small creek that we dammed up to make
our lake. Some of the water from the spillway flows into that now, but
its channel won't hold a hundredth part of the flood if the dam goes
out.

"You'd better move, I tell you. The dam is slowly weakening.  We've
done all we can to save it, but that's out of the question.  The only
thing to do is to run while there's time. We've tried to make
additional openings, but we daren't make any more, or the wall will be
so weakened that it will go out in less than twenty-four hours.

"You've had your warning, now profit by it!" he added. "I'm going to
tell those poor souls down in the valley below. It will be tough on
them; but it can't be helped."

"If the dam bursts and the water could only be turned over into the
transverse valley, this one would be safe," said Tom, in a low voice.

"Yes, but it can't be done!" the messenger exclaimed. "Our engineers
thought of that, but it would take a week to open a channel, and there
isn't time. It can't be done!"

"Maybe it can," spoke Tom, softly, but no one asked him what he meant.

"Well, I must be off," the man went on. "I've done my duty in warning
you."

"Yes, you have," agreed Tom, "and if any damage comes to us it will be
our own fault. But I don't believe there will."

The man hastened out, murmuring something about "rash and foolhardy
people."

"What are you going to do, Tom?" asked Ned.

"Stay right here."

"But if the dam bursts?"

"It may not, but, if it does, we'll be safe. I have had a look at the
water, and there's no chance for it to rise here, even if the whole dam
went out at once, which is not likely. Don't worry.  We'll be all
right."

"Bless my checkbook!" cried Mr. Damon. "But what about those poor
people in the valley?"

"They will have time to flee, and save their lives," spoke the young
inventor; "but they may lose their homes. They can sue the water
company for damages, though. Now don't do any more worrying, but get to
bed, and be ready for the test tomorrow. And the first thing I do I'm
going to have a little flight in the Humming Bird to get my nerves in
trim. This long rain has gotten me in poor shape. Koku, you must be on
the alert tonight. I don't want anything to happen to my gun at the
last minute."

"Me watch!" exclaimed the giant, significantly, as he picked up a heavy
club.

"Do you anticipate any trouble?" asked Ned, anxiously.

"No, but it's best to be on the safe side," answered Tom. "Now let's
turn in."

Certainly the next day, bright and sunshiny as it broke, had in it
little of impending disaster. The weather was fine after the
long-continued rains, and the whole valley seemed peaceful and quiet.
At the far end could be seen the great dam, with water pouring over it
in a thin sheet, forming a small stream that trickled down the centre
of the valley, and to the town below.

But, through great pipes that led to the drinking system, though they
were unseen, thundered immense streams of solid water, reducing by as
much as the engineers were able the pressure on the concrete wall.

Tom and Ned, in the Humming Bird, took a flight out to the dam shortly
after breakfast, when the steel men were putting a few finishing
touches to the gun carriage, ready for the test that was to take place
about noon.

"It doesn't look as though it would burst," observed Ned, as the
aircraft hovered over the big artificial lake.

"No," agreed Tom. "But I suppose the engineers want to be on the safe
side in case of damage suits. I want to take a look at the place where
the other valley comes up to this at right angles."

He steered his powerful little craft in that direction, and circled low
over the spot.

"A bursting projectile, about where that big white stone is, would do
the trick," murmured Tom.

"What trick?" asked Ned, curiously.

"Oh, I guess I was talking to myself," admitted Tom, with a laugh. "I
may not have to do it, Ned."

"Well, you're talking in riddles today, all right, Tom. When you get
ready to put me wise, please do."

"I will. Now we'll get back, and fire our first long shot. I do hope I
make a record."

There was much to be done, in spite of the fact that the foreman of the
steel workers assured Tom that all was in readiness. It was some time
that afternoon when word was given for those who wished to retire to an
improvised bomb-proof. Word had previously been sent down the valley so
that no one, unless he was looking for trouble, need be in the vicinity
of the gun, nor near where the shots were to land.

Through powerful glasses Tom and Ned surveyed the distant mountain that
was to be the target. Several great squares of white cloth had been put
at different bare spots to make the finding of the range easy.

"I guess we're ready now," announced the young inventor, a bit
nervously. "Bring up the powder, Koku."

"Me bring," exclaimed the giant, calmly, as he went to the bomb-proof
where the powerful explosive was kept.

The great projectile was in readiness to be slung into the breech by
means of the hoisting apparatus, for it weighed close to two tons. It
was carefully inserted under Tom's supervision.  It carried no bursting
charge, for Tom's first shot was merely to establish the extreme range
that his cannon would shoot.

"Now the powder," called the young inventor. To avoid accidents Koku
handled this himself, the hoisting apparatus being dispensed with. Tom
figured out that five hundred pounds of his new, powerful explosive
would be about the right amount to use, and this quantity, divided into
several packages to make the handling easier, was quickly inserted in
the breech of the gun by Koku.

"Bless my doormat!" cried Mr. Damon, who stood near, looking nervously
on. "Don't drop any of that."

"Me no drop," was the answer.

Tom was busily engaged in figuring on a bit of paper, and Ned, who
looked over his shoulder, saw a complicated compilation that looked to
be a combination of geometry, algebra, differential calculus and other
higher mathematics.

"What are you doing, Tom?" he asked.

"I'm trying to confirm my own theories by means of figures, to see if I
can really reach that farthest target."

"What, not the one thirty miles away.

"That's it, Ned. I want to get a thirty-mile range if I can."

"It isn't possible, Tom."

"Bless my tape measure! I should say not!" cried Mr. Damon.

"We'll see," replied Tom, quietly. "Put in the primer, Ned; and, Koku,
close the breech and slot it home."

In a few seconds the great gun was ready for firing.

"Now," said Tom, "this thing may be all right, and it may not.  The
only thing that can cause an accident will be a flaw in the steel. No
one can guard against that. So, in order to be on the safe side, we
will all go into the bomb-proof, and I will fire the gun from there.
The wires are long enough."

They all agreed that this was good advice, and soon the steel men and
Tom's friends were gathered in a sort of cave that had been hollowed
out in the side of the hill, and at an angle from the big gun.

"If it does burst--which I hope it won't," said Tom, "the pieces will
fly in straight lines, so we will be safe enough here. Ned, are you are
ready at the instruments?"

"Yes, Tom."

"I want you to note the registered muzzle velocity. Mr. Damon, you will
please read the pressure gauge. After I press the button I'm going to
watch the landing of the projectile through the telescope."

The gun had been pointed, as I have said, at the farthest target--one
thirty miles away, telescope sights on the giant cannon making this
possible.

"All ready!" cried Tom.

"All ready," answered Ned.

There was a tense moment; Tom's thumb pressed home the electric button,
and then came the explosion.

It seemed for a moment as if everyone was lifted from his feet.  They
had all stood on their tiptoes, and opened their mouths to lessen the
shock, but even then it was terrific. The very ground shook--from the
roof of their cave small stones and gravel rattled down on their heads.
Their ear-drums were numbed from the shock. And the noise that filled
the valley seemed like a thousand thunderbolts merged into one.

Tom rushed from the bombproof, dropping the electric button. He caught
sight of his gun, resting undisturbed on the improvised carriage.

"Hurray!" he cried in delight. "She stood the charge all right.  And
look! look!" he cried, as he pointed the glasses toward the distant
hillside. "There goes my projectile as straight as an arrow. There! By
Caesar, Ned! It landed within three feet of the target! Oh, you
beauty!" he yelled at his giant cannon. "You did all I hoped you would!
Thirty miles, Ned! Think of that! A two-ton projectile being shot
thirty miles!"

"It's great, Tom!" yelled his chum, clapping him on the back, and
capering about. "It's the longest shot on record."

"It certainly is," declared the foreman of the steel workers, who had
helped in casting many big guns. "No cannon ever made can equal it. You
win, Tom Swift!"

"Bless my armor plate!" gasped Mr. Damon. "What attacking ship against
the Panama Canal could float after a shot like that."

"Not one," declared Tom; "especially after I put a bursting charge into
the projectile. We'll try that next."

By means of compressed air the gases and some particles of the
unexploded powder were blown out of the big cannon. Then it was loaded
again, the projectile this time carrying a bursting charge of another
explosive that would be set off by concussion.

Once more they retired to the bombproof, and again the great gun was
fired. Once more the ground shook, and they were nearly deafened by the
shock.

Then, as they looked toward the distant hillside, they saw a shower of
earth and great rocks rise up. It was like a sand geyser. Then, when
this settled back again, there was left a gaping hole in the side of
the mountain.

"That does the business!" cried Tom. "My cannon is a success!"

The last shot did not go quite as far as the first, but it was because
a different kind of projectile was used. Tom was perfectly satisfied,
however. Several more trials were given the gun, and each one confirmed
the young inventor in his belief that he had made a wonderful weapon.

"If that doesn't fortify the Panama Canal nothing will," declared Ned.

"Well, I hope I can convince Uncle Sam of that," spoke Tom, simply.

The muzzle velocity and the pressure were equal to Tom's highest hopes.
He knew, now, that he had hit on just the right mixture of powder, and
that his gun was correctly proportioned.  It showed not the slightest
strain.

"Now we'll try another bursting shell," he said, after a rest, during
which some records were made. "Then we'll call it a day's work. Koku,
bring up some more powder. I'll use a little heavier charge this time."

It was while the gun was being loaded that a horseman was seen riding
wildly down the valley. He was waving a red flag in his hand.

"Bless my watch chain!" cried Mr. Damon. "What's that?"

"It looks as though he was coming to give us a warning," suggested the
steel foreman.

"Maybe someone has kicked about our shooting," remarked Ned.

"I hope not," murmured Tom.

He looked at the horseman anxiously. The rider came nearer and nearer,
wildly waving his flag. He seemed to be shouting something, but his
words could not be made out. Finally he came near enough to be heard.

"The dam! The dam!" he cried. "It's bursting. Your shots have hastened
it. The cracks are widening. You'd better get away!" And he galloped on.

"Bless my toilet soap!" gasped Mr. Damon.

"I was afraid of this!" murmured Tom. "But, since our shots have
hastened the disaster, maybe we can avert it."

"How?" demanded Ned.

"I'll show you. All hands come here and we'll shift this gun. I want it
to point at that big white stone!" and he indicated an immense boulder,
well up the valley, near the place where the two great gulches joined.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE DOPED POWDER


"What are you going to do, Tom?" cried Ned, as he, with the others,
worked the hand gear that shifted the big gun. When it was permanently
mounted electricity would accomplish this work.  "What's your game,
Tom?"

"Don't you remember, Ned? When we were talking about the chance of the
dam bursting, I said if the current of suddenly released water could be
turned into the other valley, the people below us would be saved."

"Yes."

"Well, that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to fire a bursting shell
at the point where the two valleys come together.  I'll break down the
barrier of rock and stone between them."

"Bless my shovel and hoe!" cried Mr. Damon.

"If we can turn enough of the water into the other valley, where no one
lives, and where it can escape into the big river there, the amount
that will flow down this valley will be so small that only a little
damage will be done."

"That's right!" declared the steel foreman, as he caught Tom's idea.
"It's the only way it could be done, too, for there won't be time to
make the necessary excavation any other way. Is the gun swung around
far enough, Mr. Swift?"

"No, a little more toward me," answered Tom, as he peered through the
telescope sights. "There, that will do. Now to get the proper
elevation," and he began to work the other apparatus, having estimated
the range as well as he could.

In a few seconds the giant cannon was properly trained on the white
rock. Meanwhile the horseman, with his red flag, had continued on down
the valley. In spite of his warning of the night before, it developed
that a number had disregarded it, and had remained in their homes. Most
of the inhabitants, however, had fled to the hills, to stay in tents,
or with such neighbors as could accommodate them. Some lingered to move
their household goods, while others fled with what they could carry.

It was to see that the town was deserted by these late-stayers that the
messenger rode, crying his warning as did the messenger at the bursting
of the Johnstown dam twenty-odd years ago.

"The projectile!" cried Tom, as he saw that all was in readiness.
"Lively now! I can see the top of the dam beginning to crumble," and he
laid aside the telescope he had been using.

The projectile, with a heavy charge of bursting powder, was slung into
the breech of the gun.

"Now the powder, Koku!" called Tom. "Be quick; but not so fast that you
drop any of it."

"Me fetch," responded the giant, as he hastened toward the small cave
where the explosive was kept. As the big man brought the first lot, and
Ned was about to insert it in the breech of the gun, behind the
projectile, Tom exclaimed:

"Just let me have a look at that. It's some that I first made, and I
want to be sure it hasn't gone stale."

Critically he looked at the powerful explosive. As he did so a change
came over his face.

"Here, Koku!" the young inventor said. "Where did you get this?"

"In cave, Master."

"Is there any more left?"

"Only enough for this one shoot."

"By Jove!" muttered Tom. "There's been some trick played here!" and he
set off on a run toward the bomb-proof.

"What's the matter?" cried Ned, as he noticed the agitation of his chum.

"The powder has been doped!" yelled Tom. "Something has been put in it
to make it nonexplosive. It's no good. It wouldn't send that shell a
thousand yards, and it's got to go five miles to do any good. My plan
won't work."

"Doped the powder?" gasped Ned. "Who could have done it?"

"I don't know. There must have been some spy at work. Quick, run and
ask the foreman if any of his men are missing. I'll see if there's
enough of the good powder left to break down the barrier!"

Ned was away like a shot, while the others, not knowing what to make of
the strange conduct of the two lads, looked on in wonder.  Tom raced
toward the cave where the powder was stored, Koku following him.

"Bless my shoe laces!" cried Mr. Damon. "Look at the dam now!"

They gazed to where he pointed. In several places the concrete spillway
had crumbled down to a ragged edge, showing that the solid wall was
giving way. The amount of water flowing over the dam was greater now.
The creek was steadily rising. Down the valley the horseman with the
red flag was but a speck in the distance.

"What can I do? What can I do?" murmured Tom. "If all the powder there
is left has been doped, I can't save the town! What can I do? What can
I do?"

Ned had reached the foreman, who, with his helpers, was standing about
the big gun.

"Have any of your men left recently?" yelled Ned.

"Any of my men left? What do you mean?

"Schlichter went yesterday," said the timekeeper. "I thought he was in
quite a hurry to get his money, too."

"Schlichter gone!" exclaimed the foreman. "He was no good anyhow. I
think he was a sort of Anarchist; always against the government, the
way he talked. So he has left; eh? But what's the matter, Ned?"

"Something wrong with the powder. Tom can't shoot the cannon and turn
aside the water to save the town. Some of his enemies have been at
work. Schlichter leaving at this time, and in such hurry, makes it look
suspicious."

"It sure does! And, now I recall it, I saw him yesterday near your
powder magazine. I called him down for it, for I knew Tom Swift had
given orders that only his own party was to go near it.  So the powder
is doped; eh?"

"Yes! It's all off now."

He turned to see Tom approaching on the run.

"Any good powder left?" asked Ned.

"Not a pound. Did you hear anything?"

"Yes, one man has disappeared. Oh, Tom, we've got to fail after all! We
can't save the town!"

"Yes, we can, Ned. If that dam will only hold for half an hour more."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that I have another supply of good powder in the village. I
secreted some there, you remember I told you. If I can go get that, and
get back here in time, I can break down the barrier with one shot, and
save Preston."

"But you never can make the trip there and back in time, with the
powder, Tom. It's impossible. The dam may hold half an hour, or it may
not. But, if it does, you can't do anything!"

"I can't? Well, I'm going to make a big try, Ned. You stay on the job
here. Have everything ready so that when I get back with the new
explosive, which I hope hasn't been tampered with, I can shove it into
the breech, and set it off. Have the wires, primers and button all
ready for me."

Then Tom set off on the run.

"Where are you going?" gasped his chum. "You can never run to Preston
and back in time."

"I don't intend to. I'm going in my airship. Koku, never mind bringing
the rest of the powder from the cave. It's no good. Run out the Humming
Bird. I'm going to drive her to the limit. I've just got to get that
powder here on time!"

"Bless my timetable!" gasped Mr. Damon. "That's the only way it can be
done. Lucky Tom brought the airship along!"

The young inventor, pausing only to get some cans for the explosive,
and some straps with which to fasten them in the monoplane, leaped into
the speedy craft.

The motor was adjusted; Koku whirled the propeller blades.  There was a
staccato succession of explosions, a rushing, roaring sound, and then
the craft rose like a bird, and Tom circled about, making a straight
course for the distant town, while below him the creek rose higher and
higher as the dam continued to crumble away.




CHAPTER XIX

BLOWING DOWN THE BARRIER


"Can you see anything of him, Ned?"

"Not a thing, Mr. Damon. Wait--hold on--no! It's only a bird," and the
lad lowered the glasses with which he had been sweeping the sky.
looking for his chum returning in his airship with the powder.

"He'd better hurry," murmured the foreman. "That dam can't last much
longer. The water is rising fast. When it does go out it will go with a
rush. Then good-bye to the village of Preston."

"Bless my insurance policy!" cried Mr. Damon. "Don't say such things,
my friend."

"But they're true!" insisted the man. "You can see for yourself that
the cracks in the dam are getting larger. It will be a big flood when
it does come. And I'm not altogether sure that we're safe up here," he
added, as he looked down the sides of the hill to where the creek was
now rapidly becoming a raging torrent.

"Bless my hat-band!" gasped Mr. Damon. "You--you are getting on my
nerves!"

"I don't want to be a calamity howler," went on the foreman; "but we've
got to face this thing. We'd better get ready to vamoose if Tom Swift
doesn't reach here in time to fire that shot--and he doesn't seem to be
in sight."

Once more Ned swept the sky with his glasses. The roar of the water
below them could be plainly heard now.

"I wish I could get hold of that rascally German," muttered the
foreman. "I'd give him more than a piece of my mind. It will be his
fault if the town is destroyed, for Tom's plan would have saved it. I
wonder who he can be, anyhow?"

"Some spy," declared Ned. "We've been having trouble right along, you
know, and this is part of the game. I have some suspicions, but Tom
doesn't agree with me. Certainly the fellow, whatever his object, has
made trouble enough this time."

"I should say so," agreed the foreman.

"Look, Ned!" cried Mr. Damon. "Is that a bird; or is it Tom?" and he
pointed to a speck in the sky. Ned quickly focused his glasses on it.

"It's Tom!" he cried a second later. "It's Tom in the Humming Bird!"

"Thank Heaven for that!" exclaimed Mr. Damon, fervently, forgetting to
bless anything on this occasion. "If only he can get here in time!"

"He's driving her to the limit!" cried Ned, still watching his chum
through the glass. "He's coming!"

"He'll need to," murmured the foreman, grimly. "That dam can't last ten
minutes more. Look at the people fleeing from the valley!"

He pointed to the north, and a confused mass of small black
objects--men, women and children, doubtless, who had lingered in spite
of the other warning--could be seen clambering up the sides of the
valley.

"Is everything ready at the gun?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Everything," answered Ned, whom Tom had instructed in all the
essentials. "As soon as he lands we'll jam in the powder, and fire the
shot."

"I hope he doesn't land too hard, with all that explosive on board,"
murmured the foreman.

"Bless my checkerboard!" cried Mr. Damon. "Don't suggest such a thing."

"I guess we can trust Tom," spoke Ned.

They looked up. The distant throb of the monoplane's motor could now be
heard above the roar of the swollen waters. Tom could be seen in his
seat, and beside him, in the other, was a large package.

Nearer and nearer came the monoplane. It began to descend, very gently,
for well Tom Swift knew the danger of hitting the ground too hard with
the cargo he carried.

He described a circle in the air to check his speed. Then, gently as a
bird, he made a landing not far from the gun, the craft running easily
over one of the few level places on the side of the hill. Tom yanked on
the brake, and the iron-shod pieces of wood dug into the ground,
checking the progress of the monoplane on its bicycle wheels.

"Have you got it, Tom?" yelled Ned.

"I have," was the answer of the young inventor as he leaped from his
seat.

"Is it good powder?" asked the foreman, anxiously.

"I don't know," spoke Tom. "I didn't have time to look. I just rushed
up to where I had stored it, got some out and came back with the motor
at full speed. Ran into an airpocket, too, and I thought it was all up
with me when I began to fall. But I managed to get out of it. Say,
we're going to have it nip and tuck here to save the village."

"That's what!" agreed the foreman, as he helped Koku take the cans of
explosive.

"Wait until I look at it," suggested Tom, as he opened one. His trained
eye and touch soon told him that this explosive had not been tampered
with.

"It's all right!" he shouted. "Into the gun with it, and we'll see what
happens."

It was the work of only a few moments to put in the charge.  Then, once
more, the breech-block was slotted home, and the trailing electric
wires unreeled to lead to the bomb-proof.

Tom Swift took one last look through the telescope sights of his giant
cannon. He changed the range slightly by means of the hand and
worm-screw gear, and then, with the others, ran to the shelter of the
cave. For, though the gun had stood the previous tests well, Tom had
used a heavier charge this time, both in the firing chamber and in the
projectile, and he wanted to take no chances.

"All ready?" asked the young inventor, as he looked around at his
friends gathered in the cave.

"I--I guess so," answered Ned, somewhat doubtfully.

Tom hesitated a moment, then, as his fingers stiffened to press the
electric button there sounded to the ears of all a dull, booming sound.

"The dam! It has given way!" cried Ned.

"That's it!" shouted the foreman. "Fire!"

Tom pressed the button. Once again was that awful tremor of the
earth--the racking shake--the terrific explosion and a shock that
knocked a couple of the men down.

"All right!" shouted Tom. "The gun held together. It's safe to go out.
We'll see what happened!"

They all rushed from the shelter of the cave. Before them was an
awe-inspiring sight. A great wall of water was coming down the valley,
from a large opening in the centre of the dam. It seemed to leap
forward like a race horse.

Tom declared afterward that he saw his projectile strike the barrier
that separated one valley from the other, but none of the others had
eyesight as keen as this--and perhaps Tom was in error.

But there was no doubt that they all saw what followed. They heard a
distant report as the great projectile burst. Then a wall of earth
seemed to rise up in front of the advancing wall of water. High into
the air great stones and masses of dirt were thrown.

"A good shot!" cried the foreman. "Just in the right place, Tom Swift!"

For a moment it was as though that wall of water hesitated, not
deciding whether to continue on down the populated valley, or to swing
over into the other gash where it could do comparatively little harm.
It was a moment of suspense.

Then, as Tom's great shot had, by means of the exploding projectile,
torn down the barrier, the water chose the more direct and shorter
path. With a mighty roar, like a distant Niagara, it swept into the new
channel the young inventor had made. Into the transverse valley it
tumbled and tossed in muddy billows of foam, and only a small portion
of the flood added itself to the already swollen creek.

The village of Preston had been saved by the shot from Tom's giant
cannon.




CHAPTER XX

THE GOVERNMENT ACCEPTS


"Whew! Let me sit down somewhere and get my breath!" gasped Tom, when
it was all over.

"I should think you would want a bit of quiet," replied Ned.  "You've
been on the jump since early morning."

"Bless my dining-room table!" cried Mr. Damon. "I should say so! I'll
go tell the cook to get us all a good meal--we need it," for a
competent cook had been installed in the old farmhouse where Tom and
his party had their headquarters.

"But you did the trick, Tom, old man!" exclaimed Ned, fervently, as he
looked down the valley and saw the receding water. For, with the
opening of the channel into the other valley the flood, at no time
particularly dangerous near Preston, was subsiding rapidly.

"He sure did," declared the foreman. "No one else could have done it,
either."

"Oh, I don't know," spoke Tom, modestly. "It just happened so.  There
was one minute, though, after I got to the place in Preston where I had
stored the powder, that I didn't know whether I would succeed or not."

"How was that?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Why, in my hurry and excitement I forgot the key to the underground
storeroom where I had put the explosive. I knew there was no time to
get another, so I took a chance and burst in the door with an axe I
found in the freight depot."

"I should say you did take a chance!" declared Ned, who knew how
"freaky" the high explosive was, and how likely it was, at times, to be
set off by the least concussion.

"But it came out all right," went on Tom. "I bundled it into the other
seat of my Humming Bird, and started back."

"Had most of the folks left town?" asked the foreman.

"Nearly all," replied Tom. "The last of them were hurrying away as I
left. And it shows how scared they were, they didn't pay any attention
to me and my flying machine, though I'll wager some of them never saw
one before."

"Well, they don't need to be scared any more," put in Mr. Damon "You
saved their homes for them, Tom."

"I'd like to get hold of the fellow who doped my powder; that's what
I'd like to do," murmured the young inventor. "Ned, we'll have to be
doubly watchful from now on. But I must take a look at my gun. That
last charge may have strained it."

But the giant cannon was as perfect as the day it was turned out of the
shop. Not even the extra charge of the powerful explosive had injured
it.

"That's fine!" cried Tom, as he looked at every part. "As soon as this
flood is over we'll try some more practice shots. But we're all
entitled to a rest now."

The great gun was covered with tarpaulins to protect it from the
weather, and then all retired to the house for a bountiful meal. Late
that afternoon nearly all signs of the flood had disappeared, save that
along the edges of the creek was much driftwood, showing the height to
which the creek had risen. But it would have gone much higher had it
not been for Tom's timely shot.

The water from the impounded lake continued to pour down into the cross
valley, and did some damage, but nothing like what would have followed
its advent into Preston. The few inhabitants of the gulch into which
the young inventor had directed the flood had had warning, and had fled
in time. In Preston, some few houses nearest the banks of the rising
creek were flooded, but were not carried away.

The following day some of the officers of the water company paid a
visit to Tom, to thank him for what he had done. But for him they would
have been responsible for great property damage, and loss of life might
have followed.

They intended to rebuild the dam, they said, on a new principle, making
it much stronger.

"And," said the president, "we will have an emergency outlet gate into
that valley you so providentially opened for us, Mr. Swift. Then, in
time of great rain, we can let the water out slowly as we need to."

Tom's chief anxiety, now, was to bring his perfected gun to the notice
of the United States Government officials. To have them accept it, he
knew he must give it a test before the ordnance board, and before the
officers of the army and navy. Accordingly he prepared for this.

He ordered several new projectiles, some of a different type from those
heretofore used, and leaving Koku and Ned in charge of the gun, went
back to Shopton to superintend the manufacture of an additional supply
of his explosive. He took care, too, that no spies gained access to it.

Then, with a plentiful supply of ammunition and projectiles, Tom
resumed his practice in the lonely valley. He had, in the meanwhile,
sent requests to the proper government officials to come and witness
the tests.

At first he met with no success, and he learned, incidentally, that
General Waller had built a new gun, the merits of which he was also
anxious to show.

"It's a sort of rivalry between us," said Tom to Ned.

But, in a way, fortune favored our hero. For when General Waller tested
his new gun, though it did not burst, it did not come up to
expectations, and its range was not as great as some of the weapons
already in use.

Then, too, Captain Badger acted as Tom's friend at court. He "pulled
wires" to good advantage, and at last the government sent word that one
of the ordnance officers would be present on a certain day to witness
the tests.

"I wish the whole board had come," said Tom. "Probably they have only
sent a young fellow, just out of West Point, who will turn me down.

"But I'm going to give him the surprise of his life; and if he doesn't
report favorably, and insist on the whole board coming out here, I'll
be much disappointed."

Tom made his preparations carefully, and certainly Captain Waydell, the
young officer who came to represent Uncle Sam, was impressed. Tom sent
shell after shell, heavily charged, against the side of the mountain.
Great holes and gashes were torn in the earth. The gun even exceeded
the range of thirty miles. And the heaviest armor plate that could be
procured was to the projectiles of the giant cannon like cheese to a
revolver bullet.

"It's great, Mr. Swift! Great!" declared the young captain. "I shall
strongly recommend that the entire board see this test." And when Tom
let him fire the gun himself the young man was more than delighted.

He was as good as his word, and a week later the entire ordnance board,
from the youngest member to the grave and grizzled veterans, were
present to witness the test of Tom's giant cannon.

It is needless to say that it was successful. Tom and Ned, not to
mention Mr. Damon, Koku and every loyal member of the steel working
gang, saw to it that there was no hitch. The solid shots were regarded
with wonder, and when the explosive one was sent against the hillside,
making a geyser of earth, the enthusiasm was unbounded.

"We shall certainly recommend your gun, Mr. Swift," declared the Chief
of Staff. "It does just what we want it to do, and we have no doubt
that Congress will appropriate the money for several with which to
fortify the Panama Canal."

"The gun is most wonderful," spoke a voice with a German accent. "It is
surprising!"

Tom and Ned both started. They saw an officer, evidently a foreigner,
resplendent in gold trimmings, and with many medals, standing near the
secretary of the ordnance board.

"Yes, General von Brunderger," agreed the chief, "it is a most timely
invention. Mr. Swift, allow me to present you to General von
Brunderger, of the German army, who is here learning how Uncle Sam does
things."

Tom bowed and shook hands. He glanced sharply at the German, but was
sure he had never seen him before. Then all the board, and General von
Brunderger, who, it appeared, was present as an invited guest, examined
the big cannon critically, while Tom explained the various details.

When the board members left, the chief promised to let Tom know the
result of the formal report as soon as possible.

The young inventor did not have long to wait. In about two weeks,
during which time he and Ned perfected several little matters about the
cannon, there came an official-looking document.

"Well, we'll soon know the verdict," spoke Tom, somewhat nervously, as
he opened the envelope. Quickly he read the enclosure.

"What is it!" cried Ned.

"The government accepts my gun!" exclaimed the young inventor.  "It
will purchase a number as soon as they can be made. We are to take one
to Panama, where it will be set up. Hurray, Ned, my boy!  Now for
Panama!"




CHAPTER XXI

OFF FOR PANAMA


"Well, Tom, it doesn't seem possible; does it, old man?"

"You're right, Ned--in a way. And yet, after all the hard work we've
done, almost anything is possible."

"Hard work! We? Oh, pshaw! You've done most of it, Tom. I only helped
here and there."

"Indeed, and you did more than that. If it hadn't been for you, Mr.
Damon and Koku we'd never have gotten off as soon as we did.  The
government is the limit for doing things, sometimes."

"Bless my timetable! but I agree with you," put in Mr. Damon.  "But at
last we are on the way, in spite of delays."

This conversation took place on board one of Uncle Sam's warships,
which the President had designated to take Tom's giant cannon to the
Panama Canal.

The big gun had been lashed to the deck of the vessel, and was well
protected from the weather. In the hold the parts of the disappearing
carriage, which Tom had at last succeeded in having made, were securely
stowed. In another part of the warship were the big projectiles, some
arranged to be fired as solid shots, and others with a bursting charge.
There was also a good supply of the powerful explosive, and Tom had
taken extraordinary precautions so that it could not be tampered with.
Koku had been detailed as a sort of guard over it, and to relieve him
was a trustworthy sergeant of marines.

"If anyone tries to dope that powder now, and spoil my test at Panama,"
declared Tom, "he'll wish he'd never tried it."

"Especially if Koku gets hold of him," added Ned, grimly.

"But I don't believe there is any danger," went on the young inventor.
"I spoke about what had happened, and the ordnance board took extra
precautions to see that none but men and officers who could be
implicitly trusted had anything to do with this expedition."

"You don't really believe anything like treachery would be attempted;
do you, Tom?"

"I don't know what to say. Certainly I can't see why anyone connected
with Uncle Sam would want to throw cold water on a plan to fortify the
canal, even if an outsider has invented the gun--I mean someone like
myself, not connected with the army or navy."

"If it's anything it's jealousy," declared Ned, "That General Waller--"

"There you go again, Ned. Let's not talk about it. Come on forward and
see what progress we are making."

It must not be supposed that to get the big gun aboard the vessel,
arrange for a new supply of the explosive, and for many of the great
projectiles, had been easy work. It was a task that taxed the skill and
strength of Tom and his friends to the utmost.

There had been wearying delays, especially in the matter of making the
disappearing carriage. At times it seemed as if the required
projectiles would never be finished. The powder, too, gave trouble, for
sometimes batches would be turned out that were utterly worthless.

But Tom never gave up, even when it seemed that some of the failures
were purposely made. Ned declared that there was a conspiracy against
his chum, but Tom could not see it that way.  It was due to a
combination of circumstances, he insisted.

But finally the gun had been put aboard the ship, having been
transported from the proving ground in the valley, and they were now en
route to Panama. There the giant cannon was to be set up, and tried
again. If it came up to expectations it was to be finally adopted as
the official gun for the protection of the big canal, and Tom would
receive a substantial reward.

"And I'm confident that it will make good," said the young inventor to
his chum, as they paced the deck of the vessel. "In fact, I'm so sure I
have practically engaged the Universal Steel Company to hold itself in
readiness to make several more of the guns."

"But suppose Uncle Sam decides against the cannon on this second test?"

"Well, then I've lost out, that's all," declared Tom, philosophically.
"But I don't believe they will."

"It certainly is a giant cannon," remarked Ned, as he paused to look at
the prostrate monster, lashed to the deck, with its wrappings of
tarpaulins. "It looks bigger here than it did when you fired the shot
that saved the town, Tom."

"Yes, I suppose it does, by contrast. But let's go down and see how the
powder and shells are standing the trip. I told the captain to have
them securely lashed, so if we struck rough weather, and the vessel
rolled, they wouldn't carry away."

"Especially the powder," put in Ned. "If that starts to banging
around--well, I'd rather be somewhere else."

"Bless my rain gauge!" cried Mr. Damon. "Please don't say such things.
You make me nervous. You're as bad as that steel foreman."

"All right, I'll be better," promised Ned, with a laugh.

The two chums found that every precaution had been taken in regard to
the projectiles and powder. Koku was on guard, the giant regarding the
boxes of explosive with a calm but determined eye. It would not be well
for any unauthorized hand to tamper with them.

"Am dere anyt'ing I kin do fo' yo'-all, Massa Tom?" inquired Eradicate,
as the young inventor and Ned prepared to go on deck again. The aged
colored man had insisted on coming as a sort of personal bodyguard to
Tom, and the latter had not the heart to refuse him. Eradicate was
desperately jealous of the giant.

"Huh!" Eradicate had said, "anybody kin sit an' look at a lot ob dem
powder boxes; but 'tain't everybody what kin wait on Massa Tom. I kin,
an' I'se gwine t' do it." And so he had.

It was planned to proceed directly to Colon, the eastern terminus of
the canal, from New York, stopping at Santiago to transact some
government business there. The big gun was to be mounted on a barbette
near the Gatun locks, pointing out to sea, and the trial shots would be
fired over the water.

Eventually the gun would be so mounted as to swing in a circle, so as
to command the land as well as the water; and, in fact, if the
government decided to adopt Tom's giant cannon as the official
protective arm of the canal, they would all be so mounted. For, of
course, it might be possible for land as well as sea forces to attack
and try to capture the big ditch.

The first few days of the voyage were pleasant enough. The weather was
fine, and Tom was kept busy explaining to many of the officers aboard
the ship the principles of his gun, powder and projectiles. Members of
the ordnance board, who had been detailed to witness the test, were
also much interested as Tom modestly described his work on the giant
cannon.

At Santiago de Cuba, when Tom and Ned were standing near the gangway,
watching the officers returning from shore leave, for the ship was to
proceed soon, after a two days' stay, the young inventor started as he
noticed a military man walking aboard.

"Look, Ned!" he exclaimed, in a low voice.

"Where?"

"At that man--an officer in civilian dress, I should judge--haven't you
seen him before?"

"I have, Tom. Now, where was it? I seem to remember his face; and yet
he wasn't dressed like this the last time I saw him."

"I guess not, Ned. He had on a uniform then."

"By jinks! I have it. That German officer--von Brunderger!  That's he!"

"You're right, Ned. And he's got his servant with him, I guess," and
Tom nodded toward a stolid German who was carrying the other's suitcase.

"I wonder what he's doing aboard here?" went on our hero's chum.

"We'll soon know," spoke Tom. "He's seen us and is nodding. We might as
well go meet him."

"Ah, my good friend, Tom Swift!" exclaimed General von Brunderger,
genially, as he grasped the hands of Tom and Ned. "I am glad to see you
both again." He seemed to mean it, though he had not been especially
cordial to them at the first gun test.  "Take my grip below," he said
in German to the man, "and, Rudolph, find Lieutenant Blake and inform
him that I am on board.  I have been invited to go to Panama by
Lieutenant Blake," he added to Tom. "I have never seen the big ditch
that you wonderful Americans have so nearly finished."

"It is going to be a big thing," spoke Tom. "I am proud that my gun is
going to help protect it."

"Ah, so you were successful, then?" and his voice expressed surprise.
"I had not heard. And the big gun; is he here?" Though speaking very
good English, von Brunderger occasionally lapsed into the idioms of his
Fatherland.

"Yes, it's on board," said Tom. "Are you going to Panama for any
special purpose?"

Ned declared afterward that the German started as Tom asked this
question, but if he did the young inventor scarcely noticed it. In an
instant, however, von Brunderger was composed again.

"I go but to see the big ditch before the water is let in," he replied.
"And since your gun is to have a test I shall be glad to witness that.
You see, I am commissioned by my Kaiser to learn all that you Americans
will allow me to in reference to your ways of doing things--in the
army, the navy and in the pursuit of peace. After all, preparation for
war is the best means of securing peace. Your officers have been more
than kind and I have taken advantage of the offer to go to Panama.
Lieutenant Blake said the ship would stop here, and, as I had business
in Cuba, I came and waited. I am delighted to see you both again."

He went below, leaving Tom and Ned staring at one another.

"Well, what do you think of it?" asked Ned.

"I don't see anything to be worried about," declared Tom. "It's true
that a German once tried to make trouble for me, but this von
Brunderger is all right, as far as I can learn. He has the highest
references, and is an accredited representative of the Kaiser. You are
too suspicious, Ned, just as you were in the case of General Waller."

"Maybe so."

From Santiago, swinging around the island of Jamaica, the warship took
her way, with the big gun, to Colon. When half way across the Caribbean
Sea they encountered rough weather.

The storm broke without any unusual preliminaries, but quickly
increased to a hurricane, and when night fell it saw the big ship
rolling and tossing in a tempestuous sea. Tom was anxious about his
big gun, but the captain assured him that double lashings would make it
perfectly safe.

Tom and Ned had seen little of the German officer that day, nor, in
fact, since he came aboard. He kept much in the quarters of the other
officers, and the report was current that he was a "jolly good fellow."

Rather anxious as to the outcome of the storm, Tom turned in late that
night, not expecting to sleep much, for there were many unusual noises.
But he did drop off into a doze, only to be awakened about an hour
later by a commotion on deck.

"What's up, Ned?" he called to his chum, who had an adjoining stateroom.

"I don't know, Tom. Something is going on, though. Hear that thumping
and pounding!"

As Ned spoke there came a tremendous noise from the deck.

"By Jove!" yelled Tom, jumping from his berth. "It's my big gun! It has
torn loose from the lashings and may roll overboard!"




CHAPTER XXII

AT GATUN LOCKS


"Steady there now, men! Pass forward those lashings! Careful!  Look
out, or you'll be caught by it when she rolls! Another turn around the
bitts!"

It was the officer of the deck giving orders to a number of marines and
sailors as Tom hastily clad, leaped on deck, followed by his chum. The
warship was pitching and tossing worse than ever in the heaving
billows, and the men were engaged in making fast the giant cannon,
which, as Tom had surmised, had torn loose from the steel cables
holding it down on deck.

"Come on, Ned!" cried Tom. "We've got to help here!"

"That's right. Look at her swing, would you? If she hits anything it's
a goner!"

The breech of the gun appeared to be the end that had come loose, while
the muzzle still held fast. And this immense mass of steel was swinging
about, eluding the efforts of the ship's officers and crew to capture
it. And it seemed only a question of time when the muzzle would tear
loose, too. Then, free on deck, the giant cannon would roll through the
frail bulwarks, and plunge into the depths of the sea.

"Look out for yourselves, boys!" cried the officer, as he saw Tom and
Ned. "This is no plaything!"

"I know it!" gasped Tom. "But we've got to fasten it down."

"That's what we're trying to do," answered the other. "We did get the
bight of a cable over the breech, but the men could not hold it, even
though they took a couple of turns around the bitts."

"Ned, go call Koku!" cried Tom. "We need him up here."

"That's right!" declared his chum. "If anyone can hold the cable with
the weight of the big gun straining on it, the giant can. I'll get him!"

"On deck, Koku, quick!" gasped Ned. "Master's cannon may fall into the
sea."

"But the powder!" asked the big man, simply. "Master told me to guard
the powder. I stay here."

"No, I'll stay!" insisted Ned. "You are needed on deck, I'll take your
place here."

Koku stared uncomprehendingly for a moment, while the loosened gun
continued to thump and pound on the deck as though it would burst
through. Then it filtered through the dull brain of honest Koku what
was wanted.

"I go," he said, and he hurried up the companionway, while Ned, eager
to be with Tom, took up the less exciting work of guarding the powder.

Once more, with the giant strength of Koku to aid in the work, the task
of lashing the gun again to the deck was undertaken. A bight of steel
cable was gotten around the breech, and then passed to a big bitt, or
stanchion, bolted to the deck. Koku, working on the heaving deck, amid
the hurricane, took a turn around the brace.

There came a roll of the ship that threatened to send the gun sliding
against the stanchion, but Koku braced himself. His arms, great bunches
of muscles, strained and fairly cracked with the strain. The wire rope
seemed to give. Then, as the ship rolled the other way, the strain
eased. Koku, aided by the cable, and by the leverage given by the
several turns about the bitts, had held the big gun.

"Quick!" cried Tom. "Now another rope so it can't roll the opposite
way, and we'll have her."

For a moment the ship was on a level keel, and taking advantage of
this, when the weight of the gun would be neutral, another cable was
passed around it. Then it was a comparatively easy matter to put on
more lashings until the giant cannon was once more fast.

"Whew! But that was tough work!" exclaimed Tom, as he once more entered
the stateroom with Ned.

"It must have been," agreed his chum, who had been relieved at the
powder station by the giant.

"I thought it would surely go overboard," went on Tom. "Only for Koku
it would have. Those fellows couldn't hold it when the ship rolled."

"How did it happen to get loose?" asked Ned.

"Oh, the cables frayed, I suppose. I'll take a look in the morning.
Say, but this is some storm!"

"Is the gun all right now?"

"Yes, it's fastened down like a mummy. It can't get loose unless the
whole deck comes with it. We can sleep in peace."

"Not much sleep in this blow, I guess," responded Ned.

But they did manage to get some rest by morning, at which time the
hurricane seemed to have blown itself out. The day saw the sea
gradually calm down, and the big cannon was made additionally secure
against a possible recurrence of the accident. But a few days more and
it would be safe at Colon.

Tom and Ned had gone on deck soon after breakfast to look at the
cannon. All about were pieces of the broken cables, that had been cast
aside when the new lashings were put on. Ned picked up one end,
remarking:

"These seem mighty strong. It's queer how they broke."

"Well, there was quite a weight upon them," spoke Tom.

Ned did not reply for a moment. Then, as he looked at another piece of
a severed cable, he exclaimed:

"Tom, the weight of your gun never broke these."

"What do you mean, Ned?"

"I mean that they were partly filed, or cut through--then the storm and
the pressure of the gun did the rest. Look!"

He held out the piece of wire rope. There, on the end, could be seen
several strands cleanly severed, as though a file or a hacksaw had been
used.

"By Jove!" murmured Tom. He looked about the deck. There was no one
near the big gun. "Ned," whispered his chum, "there's something wrong
here. It's more of that conspiracy to defeat my aims. Don't say
anything about this, and we'll keep our eyes open. We'll do a bit of
detective work."

"The scoundrels!" exclaimed Ned. "I wish we knew who they were.
General Waller isn't aboard, and what other of the officers has a gun
of his own that he would rather see accepted by the government than
yours?"

"None that I know of," replied Tom.

"General Waller might have hired someone to--"

"Don't go making any unwarranted charges," warned the young inventor.

"Or perhaps that German, Tom, might--"

"Hush!" cautioned Tom. "Here he comes now," and, as he spoke, General
von Brunderger came strolling along the deck.

"I am glad to see that the accident of last night had no serious
effects," he said, smiling.

"It was no accident!" burst out Ned.

"No accident? You surprise me. I thought--"

"Oh, Ned means that some of the cables look as though they had been
cut," hastily put in Tom, nudging his chum in the ribs as a signal for
him to keep quiet.

"The cables cut!" exclaimed the German, and his voice indicated anxious
solicitude.

"Or else filed," went on Tom easily, with a warning glance at Ned. "But
I dare say they were old cables, that had been used on other work, and
may have become frayed. Everything is safe now, though. New cables were
lashed on this morning."

"I am glad to hear it. It would be a--er--ah, a national calamity to
lose so valuable a gun, and the opening of the canal so near at hand. I
am glad that your invention is safe, Herr Swift," and he smiled
genially at Tom and Ned.

"What did you shut me off for?" asked Ned, when he and his chum were
alone in their stateroom again.

"Because I didn't want you to make any breaks before him," answered Tom.

"Then you suspect--"

"I suspect many things, Ned, but I'm not going to show my hand until
I'm ready. I'm going to watch and listen."

"And I'll be with you."

But no further accidents occurred. There were no more storms, no
attempt was made to meddle with Tom's powder, and in due season the
ship arrived at Colon, and after much labor the great gun, its
carriage, the shells and the powder were taken to the barbette at the
Gatun locks, designed to admit vessels from the Caribbean Sea into
Gatun Lake.

"And now for some more hard work," remarked Tom, as all the needful
stores were landed.




CHAPTER XXIII

NEWS OF THE MINE


"Just a little farther over this way, Ned. That's better. Now mark it
there, and we'll have it clamped down."

"But can you get enough elevation here, Tom?"

"Oh, yes, I think so. Besides, I've added a few more inches to the lift
of the disappearing carriage, and it will send the gun so much farther
in the air. I think this will do. Where is Koku?"

"Here I be, Master."

"Just get hold of that small derrick, Koku, and lift up one of the
projectiles. I want to see if they come in the right place for the
breech before I set the hoisting apparatus permanently."

The giant was soon engaged in winding up the rope of an improvised
hoist that stood about in the position the permanent one was to go.
From the interior of the barbette, which was, in effect, a bomb-proof
structure, there was lifted one of the big projectiles destined to be
hurled from Tom Swift's giant cannon.

"Yes, I think that will do," decided the young inventor, as he watched
Koku. "Now, Mr. Damon, if you will kindly oversee this part of the
work, I'll see if we can't get that motor in better shape. It didn't
work worth a cent this morning."

"Bless my rubber coat, Tom, I'll do all I can to help you!" declared
the odd man.

"Massa Tom! Massa Tom!" called Eradicate.

"Yes, Rad. What is it?"

"Heah am dem chicken sandwiches, an' some hot coffee fo' yo' all. I
done knowed yo' all wouldn't hab no time t' stop fo' dinnah, so I done
made yo' all up a snack."

"That's mighty good of you, Rad," spoke Tom, with a laugh. "I was
getting pretty hungry; but I didn't want to stop until I had things
moving in better shape. Come on, Ned, let's knock off for a few minutes
and take a bite. You, too, Mr. Damon."

As they sat about the place where the gun was being mounted, munching
sandwiches and drinking the coffee which the aged colored man had so
thoughtfully provided, Eradicate said, with a chuckle:

"By gar! Dey can't git erlong wifout dish yeah coon, arter all!  Ha!
ha! Dat cocoanut giant he mighty good when it comes t' fastening big
guns down so dey won't blow away, but when it comes t' eatin' dey has
t' depend on ole Eradicate! Ha! ha! I'se got dat cocoanut giant beat
all right!"

"He sure is jealous of Koku," remarked Ned, as Tom and Mr. Damon smiled
at the colored man.

"He certainly hit me in the right spot," declared Tom, as he reached
for another sandwich.

They had landed from the warship several days before, and from then on
there had been hard work and plenty of it. Tom was here, there and
everywhere, directing matters so that his gun would be favorably placed.

Some preliminary work had been done before they arrived in the way of
preparing a place to mount the gun, and this work was now proceeding.
The officers of the ordnance department were in actual charge, but they
always deferred to Tom, since he had most at stake.

"It will be some days before you can actually fire your gun; will it
not?" asked Ned of his chum, as they finished the lunch, and prepared
to resume work.

"Yes--a week at least, I expect. It is taking longer to set up the
carriage than I thought. But it will be an improvement over the solid
one we formerly used. That was fine, Rad," he concluded as the colored
man went back to the shack of which he had taken possession for himself
and his cooking operations. It adjoined the quarters to which Tom, Ned,
Mr. Damon and Koku had been assigned.

"Golly! I ain't so old yit but what I knows de stuff Massa Tom laiks!"
exclaimed the colored man, moving off with a chuckle.

Tom, though he had many suspicions about the cut cables that had nearly
been the cause of his gun sliding into the sea, had learned nothing
definite--nor had Ned.

The German officer, with his body servant, who seldom spoke, had landed
at Colon, and was proceeding to make himself at home with the officers
and men who were building the canal.  Occasionally he paid a visit to
Tom and Ned, where they were engaged about the big gun. He always
seemed pleasant, and interested in their labors, asking many questions,
but that was all, and our hero began to feel that perhaps he was wrong
in his suspicions.

As for Ned, he veered uncertainly from one suspicion to another. At one
time he declared that von Brunderger and General Waller were in a
conspiracy to upset Tom's plans. Again he would accuse the German
alone, until Tom laughingly bade him attend more to work and less to
theories.

Slowly the work progressed. The gun was mounted after much labor, and
then arrangements began to be made for the test. A series of shots were
to be fired out to sea, and the proper precautions were to be taken to
prevent any ships from being struck.

"Though if you intend to send a projectile thirty miles," said one of
the officers, "I'm afraid there may be some danger, after all. Are you
sure you have a range of thirty miles, Mr. Swift?"

"I have," answered Tom, calmly, "and with the increased elevation that
I am able to get here, it may exceed that."

The officer said nothing, but he looked at Tom in what our hero thought
was a peculiar manner.

A few days before the date set for the test one of the sentinels, who
had been detailed to keep curiosity-seekers away from the giant cannon,
approached Tom and said:

"There is a gentleman asking to see you, Mr. Swift."

"Who is it?" asked Tom, laying aside a pressure gauge he intended
attaching to the gun.

"He says his name is Peterson--Alec Peterson. Do you want to see him?"

"Yes, let him come up," directed the young inventor. "Do you hear that,
Ned?" he called. "Our fortune-hunting friend is here."

"Maybe he's found that lost opal mine," suggested Ned.

"I hope he has, for dad's sake," went on Tom. "Hello, Mr. Peterson!" he
called, as he noticed the old prospector coming along. "Have you had
any luck?"

"I heard you were down here," said the man, not answering the question
directly, "and as I had to run over from my island for some supplies I
thought I'd stop and see you. How are you?" and he shook hands.

"Fine!" answered Tom. "Have you found the lost mine yet?"

Alec Peterson paused a moment. Then he said slowly:

"No, Tom, I haven't succeeded in locating the mine yet. But I--I expect
to any day now!" he added, hastily.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE LONGEST SHOT


"Well, Mr. Peterson," remarked Tom, after a pause, "I'm sure I hope you
will succeed in your quest. You must have met disappointment so far."

"I have, Tom. But I'm not going to give up. Can't you come over and see
me before you go back North?"

"I'll try. Just where is your island?"

"Off in that direction," responded the fortune-hunter, pointing to the
northeast. "It's a little farther from here than I thought it was at
first--about thirty miles. But I have a little second-hand steam launch
that my pardners and I use. I'll come for you, take you over and bring
you back any time you say."

"After my gun has been tested," said Tom, with a smile. "Better stay
and see it."

"No, I must get back to the island. I have some new information that I
am sure will enable me to locate the lost mine."

"Well, good-bye, and good luck to you," called Tom, as the
fortune-hunter started away.

"Do you think he'll ever find the opals, Tom?" asked Ned.

His chum shook his head.

"I don't believe so," he answered. "Alec has always been that
way--always visionary--always just about to be successful; but never
quite getting there."

"Then your father's ten thousand dollars will be lost?"

"Yes, I suppose so; but, in a way, dad can stand it. And if I make good
on this gun test, ten thousand dollars won't look very big to me. I
guess dad gave it to Alec from a sort of sentimental feeling, anyhow."

"You mean because he saved you from the live wire?"

"That's it, Ned. It was a sort of reward, in a way, and I guess dad
won't be broken-hearted if Alec doesn't succeed. Only, of course, he'll
feel badly for Alec himself. Poor old man! he won't be able to do much
more prospecting. Well, Ned, let's get to work on that ammunition
hoist. It still jams a little on the ways, and I want it to work
smoothly. There's no use having a hitch--even a small one--when the big
bugs assemble to see how my cannon shoots."

"That's right, Tom. Well, start off, I'm with you."

The two youths labored for some time, being helped, of course, by the
workmen provided by the government, and some from the steel concern.

There were many little details to look after, not the least of which
was the patrolling of the stretch of ocean over which the great
projectiles would soar in reaching the far-off targets at which Tom had
planned to shoot. No ships were to be allowed to cross the thirty-mile
mark while the firing was in progress. So, also, the zone where the
shots were expected to fall was to be cleared.

But at last all seemed in readiness. The gun had been tried again and
again on its carriage. The projectiles were all in readiness, and the
terribly powerful ammunition had been stored below the gun in a
bomb-proof chamber, ready to be hoisted out as needed.

Because the gun had been fired so many times with a charge of powder
heavier than was ordinarily called for, and had stood the strain well,
Tom had no fear of standing reasonably close to it to press the button
of the battery. There would be no retreating to the bombproof this time.

The German officer was occasionally seen about the place where the gun
was mounted, but he appeared to take only an ordinary interest in it.
Tom began to feel more than ever that perhaps his suspicions were
unfounded.

Some officials high in government affairs had arrived at Colon in
anticipation of the test, which, to Tom's delight, had attracted more
attention than he anticipated. At the same time he was a bit nervous.

"Suppose it fails, Ned?" he said.

"Oh, it can't!" cried his chum. "Don't think about such a thing."

Plans had been made for a ship to be stationed near the zone of fire,
to report by wireless the character of each shot, the distance it
traveled, and how near it came to the target. The messages would be
received at a station near the barbette, and at once reported to Tom,
so that he would know how the test was progressing.

"Well, today tells the tale!" exclaimed the young inventor, as he got
up one morning. "How's the weather, Ned?"

"Couldn't be better--clear as a bell, Tom."

"That's good. Well, let's have grub, and then go out and see how my pet
is."

"Oh, I guess nothing could happen, with Koku on guard."

"No, hardly. I'm going to keep him in the ammunition room until after
the test, too. I'm going to take no chances."

"That's the ticket!"

The gun was found all right, in its great tarpaulin cover, and Tom had
the latter taken off that he might go over every bit of mechanism. He
made a few slight changes, and then got ready for the final trials.

On an improvised platform, not too near the giant cannon, had gathered
the ordnance board, the specially invited guests, a number of officers
and workers in the canal zone, and one or two representatives of
foreign governments. Von Brunderger was there, but his "familiar," as
Ned had come to call the stolid German servant, was not present.

Tom took some little time to explain, modestly enough, the working of
his gun. A number of questions were asked, and then it was announced
that the first shot, with only a practice charge of powder, would be
fired.

"Careful with that projectile now. That's it, slip it in carefully. A
little farther forward. That's better. Now the powder--Koku, are you
down there?" and Tom called down the tube into the ammunition chamber.

"Me here, Master," was the reply.

"All right, send up a practice load."

Slowly the powerful explosive came up on the electric hoist. It was
placed in the firing chamber and the breech closed.

"Now, gentlemen," said Tom, "this is not a shot for distance.  It is
merely to try the gun and get it warmed up, so to speak, for the real
tests that will follow. All ready?"

"All ready!" answered Ned, who was acting as chief assistant.

"Here she goes!" cried Tom, and he pressed the button.

Many were astonished by the great report, but Tom and the others, who
were used to the service charges, hardly noticed this one. Yet when the
wireless report came in, giving the range as over fourteen thousand
yards, there was a gasp of surprise.

"Over eight miles!" declared one grizzled officer; "and that with only
a practice charge. What will happen when he puts in a full one?'

"I don't know," answered a friend.

Tom soon showed them. Quickly he called for another projectile, and it
was inserted in the gun. Then the powder began to come up the hoist.
Meanwhile the young inventor had assured himself that the gun was all
right. Not a part had been strained.

This time, when Tom pressed the button there was such a tremendous
concussion that several, who were not prepared for it, were knocked
back against their neighbors or sent toppling off their chairs or
benches. And as for the report, it was so deafening that for a long
time after it many could not hear well.

But Tom, and those who knew the awful power of the big cannon, wore
specially prepared eardrum protectors, that served to reduce the shock.

"What is it?" called Tom to the wireless operator, who was receiving
the range distance from the marking ship.

"A little less than twenty-nine miles."

"We must do better than that," said Tom. "I'll use more powder, and try
one of the newer shells. I'll elevate the gun a trifle, too."

Again came that terrific report, that trembling of the ground, that
concussion, that blast of air as it rushed in to fill the vacuum
caused, and then the vibrating echoes.

"I think you must have gone the limit this time, Tom!" yelled Ned, as
he turned on the compressed air to blow the powder fumes and unconsumed
bits of explosive from the gun tube.

"Possibly," admitted Tom. "Here comes the report." The wireless
operator waved a slip of paper.

"Thirty-one miles!" he announced.

"Hurray!" cried Mr. Damon. "Bless my telescope! The longest shot on
record!"

"I believe it is," admitted the chief of the ordnance department. "I
congratulate you, Mr. Swift."

"I think I can do better than that," declared Tom, after looking at the
various recording gauges, and noting the elevation of the gun. "I think
I can get a little flatter trajectory, and that will give a greater
distance. I'm going to try."

"Does that mean more powder, Tom?" asked Ned.

"Yes, and the heaviest shell we have--the one with the bursting charge.
I'll fire that, and see what happens. Tell the zone-ship to be on the
lookout," he said to the wireless operator, giving a brief statement of
what he was about to attempt.

"Isn't it a risk, Tom?" his chum asked.

"Well, not so much. I'm sure my cannon will stand it. Come on now, help
me depress the muzzle just a trifle," and by means of the electric
current the big gun was raised at the breech a few inches.

As is well known, cannon shots do not go in straight lines.  They leave
the muzzle, curve upward and come down on another curve. It is this
curve described by the projectile that is called the trajectory. The
upward curve, as you all know, is caused by the force of the powder,
and the downward by the force of gravitation acting on the shot as soon
as it reaches its zenith. Were it not for this force the projectiles
could be fired in straight lines. But, as it is, the cannon has to be
elevated to send the shot up a bit, or it would fall short of its mark.

Consequently, the flatter the trajectory the farther it will go. Tom's
object, then, was to flatten the trajectory, by lowering the muzzle of
the gun, in order to attain greater distance.

"If this doesn't do the trick, we'll try it with the muzzle a bit
lower, and with a trifle more powder," he said to Ned, as he was about
to fire.

The young inventor was not a little nervous as he prepared to press the
button this time. It was a heavier charge than any used that day,
though the same quantity had been fired on other occasions with safety.
But he was not going to hesitate.

Coincident with the pressure of Tom's fingers there seemed to be a
veritable earthquake. The ground swayed and rocked, and a number of the
spectators staggered back. It was like the blast of a hundred
thunderbolts. The gun shook as it recoiled from the shock, but the
wonderful disappearing carriage, fitted with coiled, pneumatic and
hydrostatic buffers, stood the strain.

Following the awful report, the terrific recoil and the howl of the
wind as it rushed into the vacuum created, there was an intense
silence. The projectile had been seen by some as a dark speck, rushing
through the air like a meteor. Then the wireless operator could be seen
writing down a message, the telephone-like receivers clamped over his
ears.

"Something happened, all right!" he called aloud. "That shot hit
something."

"Not one of the ships!" cried Tom, aghast.

"I don't know. There seems to be some difficulty in transmitting.
Wait--I'm getting it: now."

As he ceased speaking there came from underneath the great gun the
sound of confused shouts. Tom and Ned recognized Koku's voice
protesting:

"No--no--you can't come in here! Master said no one was to come in."

"What is it, Koku?" yelled Tom, springing to the speaking tube
connecting with the powder magazine, at the same time keeping an eye on
the wireless operator. Tom was torn between two anxieties.

"Someone here, Master!" cried the giant. "Him try to fix powder. Ah, I
fix you!" and with a savage snarl the giant, in the concrete chamber
below, could be heard to attack someone who cried out gutturally in
German:

"Help! Help! Help!"

"Come on, Ned!" cried Tom, making a dash for the stairs that led into
the magazine. There was confusion all about, but through it all the
wireless operator continued to write down the message coming to him
through space.

"What is it, Koku? What is it?" cried Tom, plunging down into the
little chamber.

As he reached it, a door leading to the outer air flew open, and out
rushed a man, badly torn as to his clothes, and scratched and bleeding
as to his face. On he ran, across the space back of the barbette,
toward the lower tier of seats that had been erected for the spectators.

"It's von Brunderger's servant!" gasped Ned, recognizing the fellow.

"What did he do, Koku?" demanded the young inventor.

"Him sneak in here--have some of that stuff you call 'dope.' I sent up
powder, and I come back here to see him try to put some dope in
Master's ammunition."

"The scoundrel!" cried Tom. "They're trying to break me, even at the
last minute! Come on, Ned."

They raced outside to behold a curious sight. Straight toward von
Brunderger rushed the man as if in a frenzy of fear. He called out
something in German to his master, and the latter's face went first
red, then white. He was observed to look about quickly, as though in
alarm, and then, with a shout at his servant, the German officer rushed
from the stand, and the two disappeared in the direction of the
barracks.

"What does it mean?" cried Ned.

"Give it up," answered Tom, "except that Koku spoiled their trick,
whatever it was. It looks as if this was the end of it, and that the
mystery has been cleared up."

"Mr. Swift! Where's Mr. Swift?" shouted the wireless operator.  "Where
are you?"

"Yes; what is it?" demanded Tom, so excited that he hardly knew what he
was doing.

"The longest shot on record!" cried the man. "Thirty-three miles, and
it struck, exploded, and blew the top off a mountain on an island out
there!" and he pointed across the sun-lit sea.




CHAPTER XXV

THE LONG-LOST MINE


There was a silence after the inspiring words of the operator, and then
it seemed that everyone began to talk at once. The record-breaking
shot, the effect of it and the struggle that had taken place in the
powder room, together with the flight of von Brunderger and his
servant, gave many subjects for excited conversation.

"I've got to get at the bottom of this!" cried Tom, making his way
through the press of officials to where the wireless operator stood.
"Just repeat that," requested Tom, and they all gave place for him,
waiting for the answer.

The operator read the message again.

"Thirty-three miles!" murmured Tom. "That is better than I dared to
hope. But what's that about blowing the top off an island?"

"That's what you did, with that explosive shell, Mr. Swift. The
operator on the firing-zone ship saw the top fly off when the shell
struck. The ship was about half a mile away, and when they heard that
shell coming the officers thought it was all up with them. But,
instead, it passed over them and demolished the top of the mountain.

"Anybody hurt?" asked Tom, anxiously.

"No, it was an uninhabited island. But you have made the record shot,
all right. It went farther than any of the others."

"Then I suppose I ought to be satisfied," remarked Tom, with a smile.

"What was that disturbance, Mr. Swift?" asked the chief ordnance
officer, coming forward.

"I don't understand it myself," replied the young inventor. "It
appeared that someone went into the ammunition room, and Koku, my giant
servant, attacked him."

"As he had a right to do. But who was the intruder?"

"Herr von Brunderger's man."

"Ha! That German officer's! Where is he, he must explain this."

But Herr von Brunderger was not to be found, nor was his man in
evidence. They had fled, and when a search was made of their rooms,
damaging evidence was found. Before a board of investigating officers
Koku told his story, after the gun tests had been declared off for the
day, they having been most satisfactory.

The German officer's servant, it appeared, had managed to gain entrance
to the ammunition chamber by means of a false key to the outer door.
There were two entrances, the other being from the top of the platform
where the cannon rested. Koku had seen him about to throw something
into one of the ammunition cases, and had grappled with him. There was
a fight, and, in spite of the giant's strength, the man had slipped
away, leaving part of his garments in the grasp of Koku.

An investigation of some of the powder showed that it had been covered
with a chemical that would have made it explode prematurely when placed
in the gun. It would probably have wrecked the cannon by blowing out
the breech block, and might have done serious damage to life as well as
property.

"But what was the object?" asked Ned.

"To destroy Tom's gun," declared Mr. Damon.

"Why should von Brunderger want to do that?"

They found the answer among his papers. He had been a German officer of
high rank, but had been dismissed from the secret service of his
country for bad conduct. Then, it appeared, he thought of the plan of
doing some damage to a foreign country in order to get back in the good
graces of his Fatherland.

He forged documents of introduction and authority, and was received
with courtesy by the United States officials. In some way he heard of
Tom's gun, and that it was likely to be so successful that it would be
adopted by the United States government. This he wanted to prevent, and
he went to great lengths to accomplish this. It was he, or an agent of
his, who forged the letter of invitation to General Waller, and who
first tried to spoil Tom's test by doping the powder through Koku.

Later he tried other means, sending a midnight visitor to Tom's house
and even going to the length of filing the cables in the storm, so the
gun would roll off the warship into the sea. All this was found set
down in his papers, for he kept a record of what he had done in order
to prove his case to his own government. It was his servant who tried
to get near the gun while it was being cast.

That he would be restored to favor had he succeeded, was an open
question, though with Germany's friendliness toward the United States
it is probable that his acts would have been repudiated. But he was
desperate.

Failing in many attempts he resolved on a last one. He sent his servant
to the ammunition room to "dope" the powder, hoping that, at the next
shot, the gun would be mined. Perhaps he hoped to disable Tom. But the
plot failed, and the conspirators escaped.  They were never heard of
again, probably leaving Panama under assumed names and in disguise.

"Well, that explains the mystery," said Tom to Ned a few days later. "I
guess we won't have to worry any more."

"No, and I'm sorry I suspected General Waller."

"Oh, well, he'll never know it, so no harm is done. Oh, but I'm glad
this is over. It has gotten on my nerves."

"I should say so," agreed Ned.

"Bless my pillow sham!" cried Mr. Damon. "I think I can get a good
night's sleep now. So they have formally accepted your giant cannon,
Tom?"

"Yes. The last tests I gave them, showing how easily it could be
manipulated, convinced them. It will be one of the official defense
guns of the Panama Canal."

"Good! I congratulate you, my boy!" cried the odd man. "And now, bless
my postage stamp, let's get back to the United States."

"Before we go," suggested Ned, "let's go take a look at that island
from which Tom blew the top. It must be quite a sight--and thirty-three
miles away! We can get a launch and go out."

But there was no need. That same day Alec Peterson came to Colon
inquiring for Tom. His face showed a new delight.

"Why," cried Tom, "you look as though you had found your opal mine."

"I have!" exclaimed the fortune-hunter. "Or, rather, Tom, I think I
have you to thank for finding it for me."

"Me find it?"

"Yes. Did you hear about the top of the island-mountain you blew to
pieces?"

"We did, but--"

"That was my island!" exclaimed Mr. Peterson. "The mine was in that
mountain, but an earthquake had covered it. I should never have found
it but for you. That shot you accidentally fired ripped the mountain
apart. My men and I were fortunately at the base of it then, but we
sure thought our time had come when that shell struck. It went right
over our heads. But it did the business, all right, and opened up the
old mine. Tom, your father won't lose his money, we'll all be rich. Oh,
that was a lucky shot! I knew it was your cannon that did it."

"I'm glad of it!" answered the young inventor, heartily. "Glad for your
sake, Mr. Peterson."

"You must come and see the mine--your mine, Tom, for it never would
have been rediscovered had it not been for your giant cannon, that made
the longest shot on record, so I'm told."

"We will come, Mr. Peterson, just as soon as I close up matters here."

It did not take Tom long to do this. His type of cannon was formally
accepted as a defense for the Panama Canal, and he received a fine
contract to allow that type to be used by the government. His powder
and projectiles, too, were adopted.

Then, one day, he and Ned, with Koku and Mr. Damon, visited the scene
of the great shot. As Mr. Peterson had said, the whole top of the
mountain had been blown off by the explosive shell, opening up the old
mine. While it was not quite as rich as Mr. Peterson had glowingly
painted, still there was a fortune in it, and Mr. Swift got back a
substantial sum for his investment.

"And now for the good old U. S. A.!" cried Tom, as they got ready to go
back home. "I'm going to take a long rest, and the only thing I'm going
to invent for the next six months is a new potato slicer." But whether
Tom kept his words can be learned by reading the next volume of this
series.

"Bless my hand towel!" cried Mr. Damon. "I think you are entitled to a
rest, Tom."

"That's what I say," agreed Ned.

"I'll take care ob him--I'll take care ob Massa Tom," put in Eradicate,
as he cast a quick look at Koku. "Giants am all right fo' cannon wuk,
but when it comes t' comforts Massa Tom gwine t' 'pend on ole
'Radicate; ain't yo' all, Massa Tom?"

"I guess so, Rad!" exclaimed the young inventor, with a laugh.  "Is
dinner ready?"

"It suah am, Massa Tom, an' I 'specially made some oh dat fricasseed
chicken yo' all does admire so much. Plenty of it, too, Massa Tom."

"That's good, Rad," put in Ned. "For we'll all be hungry after that
trip to the island. That sure was a great shot Tom--thirty-three miles!"

"Yes, it went farther than I thought it would," replied Tom.  And now,
as they are taking a closing meal at Panama, ready to return to the
United States, we will take leave of Tom Swift and his friends.


End 



TOM SWIFT AND HIS PHOTO TELEPHONE

OR THE PICTURE THAT SAVED A FORTUNE

BY VICTOR APPLETON

AUTHOR OF "TOM SWIFT AND HIS MOTOR CYCLE," "TOM SWIFT AND HIS
GIANT CANNON," "THE MOVING PICTURE BOYS," "THE MOVING PICTURE BOYS
IN THE JUNGLE," "THE MOTION PICTURE CHUMS' FIRST VENTURE," ETC.





CONTENTS


     I. A MAN ON THE ROOF
    II. BAD NEWS
   III. TOM'S FAILURE
    IV. RUN DOWN
     V. SHARP WORDS
    VI. A WARNING
   VII. SOFT WORDS
  VIII. TOM IS BAFFLED
    IX. A GLEAM OF HOPE
     X. MIDNIGHT VISITORS
    XI. THE AIRSHIP IS TAKEN
   XII. A STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE
  XIII. THE TELEPHONE PICTURE
   XIV. MAKING IMPROVEMENTS
    XV. THE AIRSHIP CLUE
   XVI. SUCCESS
  XVII. THE MYSTERIOUS MESSAGE
 XVIII. ANOTHER CALL
   XIX. THE BUZZING SOUND
    XX. SETTING THE TRAP
   XXI. THE PHOTO TELEPHONE
  XXII. THE ESCAPE
 XXIII. ON THE TRAIL
  XXIV. THE LONELY HOUSE
   XXV. THE AIRSHIP CAPTURE





TOM SWIFT AND HIS PHOTO TELEPHONE





CHAPTER I

A MAN ON THE ROOF


"Tom, I don't believe it can be done!"

"But, Dad, I'm sure it can!"

Tom Swift looked over at his father, who was seated in an easy
chair in the library. The elderly gentleman--his hair was quite
white now--slowly shook his head, as he murmured again:

"It can't be done, Tom! It can't be done! I admit that you've made
a lot of wonderful things--things I never dreamed of--but this is
too much. To transmit pictures over a telephone wire, so that
persons cannot only see to whom they are talking, as well as hear
them--well, to be frank with you, Tom, I should be sorry to see
you waste your time trying to invent such a thing."

"I don't agree with you. Not only do I think it can be done, but
I'm going to do it. In fact, I've already started on it. As for
wasting my time, well, I haven't anything in particular to do, now
that my giant cannon has been perfected, so I might as well be
working on my new photo telephone instead of sitting around idle."

"Yes, Tom, I agree with you there," said Mr. Swift. "Sitting
around idle isn't good for anyone--man or boy, young or old. So
don't think I'm finding fault because you're busy."

"It's only that I don't want to see you throw away your efforts,
only to be disappointed in the end. It can't be done, Tom, it
can't be done," and the aged inventor shook his head in pitying
doubt.

Tom only smiled confidently, and went on:

"Well, Dad, all you'll have to do will be to wait and see. It
isn't going to be easy--I grant that. In fact, I've run up against
more snags, the little way I've gone so far, than I like to admit.
But I'm going to stick at it, and before this year is out I'll
guarantee, Father, that you can be at one end of the telephone
wire, talking to me, at the other, and I'll see you and you'll see
me--if not as plainly as we see each other now, at least plainly
enough to make sure of each other."

Mr. Swift chuckled silently, gradually breaking into a louder
laugh. Instead of being angry, Tom only regarded his father with
an indulgent smile, and continued:

"All right, Dad. Go ahead, laugh!"

"Well, Tom, I'm not exactly laughing at YOU--it's more at the
idea than anything else. The idea of talking over a wire and, at
the same time, having light waves, as well as electrical waves
passing on the same conductor!"

"All right, Dad, go ahead and laugh. I don't mind," said Tom,
good-naturedly. "Folks laughed at Bell, when he said he could send
a human voice over a copper spring; but Bell went ahead and to-day
we can talk over a thousand miles by wire. That was the telephone."

"Folks laughed at Morse when he said he could send a message over
the wire. He let 'em laugh, but we have the telegraph. Folks
laughed at Edison, when he said he could take the human voice--or
any other sound--and fix it on a wax cylinder or a hard-rubber
plate--but he did it, and we have the phonograph. And folks
laughed at Santos Dumont, at the Wrights, and at all the other
fellows, who said they could take a heavier-than-air machine, and
skim above the clouds like a bird; but we do it--I've done it--you've
done it."

"Hold on, Tom!" protested Mr. Swift. "I give up! Don't rub it in
on your old dad. I admit that folks did laugh at those inventors,
with their seemingly impossible schemes, but they made good. And
you've made good lots of times where I thought you wouldn't. But
just stop to consider for a moment. This thing of sending a
picture over a telephone wire is totally out of the question, and
entirely opposed to all the principles of science."

"What do I care for principles of science?" cried Tom, and he
strode about the room so rapidly that Eradicate, the old colored
servant, who came in with the mail, skipped out of the library
with the remark:

"Deed, an' Massa Tom must be pow'fully preragitated dis mawnin'!"

"Some of the scientists said it was totally opposed to all natural
laws when I planned my electric rifle," went on Tom. "But I made
it, and it shot. They said my air glider would never stay up, but
she did."

"But, Tom, this is different. You are talking of sending light
waves--one of the most delicate forms of motion in the world--over
a material wire. It can't be done!"

"Look here, Dad!" exclaimed Tom, coming to a halt in front of his
parent. "What is light, anyhow? Merely another form of motion;
isn't it?"

"Well, yes, Tom, I suppose it is."

"Of course it is," said Tom. "With vibrations of a certain length
and rapidity we get sound--the faster the vibration per second the
higher the sound note. Now, then, we have sound waves, or
vibrations, traveling at the rate of a mile in a little less than
five seconds; that is, with the air at a temperature of sixty
degrees. With each increase of a degree of temperature we get an
increase of about a foot per second in the rapidity with which
sound travels."

"Now, then, light shoots along at the rate of 186,000,000 miles a
second. That is more than many times around the earth in a second
of time. So we have sound, one kind of wave motion, or energy; we
have light, a higher degree of vibration or wave motion, and then
we come to electricity--and nobody has ever yet exactly measured
the intensity or speed of the electric vibrations."

"But what I'm getting at is this--that electricity must travel
pretty nearly as fast as light--if not faster. So I believe that
electricity and light have about the same kind of vibrations, or
wave motion."

"Now, then, if they do have--and I admit it's up to me to prove
it," went on Tom, earnestly--"why can't I send light-waves over a
wire, as well as electrical waves?"

Mr. Swift was silent for a moment. Then he said, slowly:

"Well, Tom, I never heard it argued just that way before. Maybe
there's something in your photo telephone after all. But it never
has been done. You can't deny that!"

He looked at his son triumphantly. It was not because he wanted to
get the better of him in argument, that Mr. Swift held to his own
views; but he wanted to bring out the best that was in his
offspring. Tom accepted the challenge instantly.

"Yes, Dad, it has been done, in a way!" he said, earnestly. "No
one has sent a picture over a telephone wire, as far as I know,
but during the recent hydroplane tests at Monte Carlo, photographs
taken of some of the events in the morning, and afternoon, were
developed in the evening, and transmitted over five hundred miles
of wire to Paris, and those same photographs were published in the
Paris newspapers the next morning."

"Is that right, Tom?"

"It certainly is. The photographs weren't so very clear, but you
could make out what they were. Of course that is a different
system than the one I'm thinking of. In that case they took a
photograph, and made a copper plate of it, as they would for a
half-tone illustration. This gave them a picture with ridges and
depressions in copper, little hills and valleys, so to speak,
according to whether there were light or dark tints in the
picture. The dark places meant that the copper lines stood up
higher there than where there were light colors."

"Now, by putting this copper plate on a wooden drum, and revolving
this drum, with an electrical needle pressing lightly on the
ridges of copper, they got a varying degree of electrical current.
Where the needle touched a high place in the copper plate the
contact was good, and there was a strong current. When the needle
got to a light place in the copper--a depression, so to speak--the
contact was not so good, and there was only a weak current."

"At the receiving end of the apparatus there was a sensitized film
placed on a similar wooden drum. This was to receive the image
that came over the five hundred miles of wire. Now then, as the
electrical needle, moving across the copper plate, made electrical
contacts of different degrees of strength, it worked a delicate
galvanometer on the receiving end. The galvanometer caused a beam
of light to vary--to grow brighter or dimmer, according as the
electrical current was stronger or weaker. And this light, falling
on the sensitive plate, made a picture, just like the one on the
copper plate in Monte Carlo."

"In other words, where the copper plate was black, showing that
considerable printing ink was needed, the negative on the other
end was made light. Then when that negative was printed it would
come out black, because more light comes through the light places
on a photograph negative than through the dark places. And so,
with the galvanometer making light flashes on the sensitive plate,
the galvanometer being governed by the electrical contacts five
hundred miles away, they transmitted a photograph by wire."

"But not a telephone wire, Tom."

"That doesn't make any difference, Dad. It was a wire just the
same. But I'm not going into that just now, though later I may
want to send photographs by wire. What I'm aiming at is to make an
apparatus so that when you go into a telephone booth to talk to a
friend, you can see him and he can see you, on a specially
prepared plate that will be attached to the telephone."

"You mean see him as in a looking-glass, Tom?"

"Somewhat, yes. Though I shall probably use a metal plate instead
of glass. It will be just as if you were talking over a telephone
in an open field, where you could see the other party and he could
see you."

"But how are you going to do it, Tom?"

"Well, I haven't quite decided. I shall probably have to use the
metal called selenium, which is very sensitive to light, and which
makes a good or a poor electrical conductor according as more or
less light falls on it. After all, a photograph is only lights and
shadows, fixed on sensitive paper or films."

"Well, Tom, maybe you can do it, and maybe you can't. I admit
you've used some good arguments," said Mr. Swift. "But then, it
all comes down to this: What good will it be if you can succeed in
sending a picture over a telephone wire?"

"What good, Dad? Why, lots of good. Just think how important it
will be in business, if you can make sure that you are talking to
the party you think you are. As it is now, unless you know the
person's voice, you can't tell that the man on the other end of
the wire is the person he says he is. And even a voice can be
imitated."

"But if you know the person yourself, he can't be imitated. If you
see him, as well as hear his voice, you are sure of what you are
doing. Why, think of the big business deals that could be made
over the telephone if the two parties could not only hear but see
each other. It would be a dead sure thing then. And Mr. Brown
wouldn't have to take Mr. Smith's word that it was he who was
talking. He could even get witnesses to look at the wire-image if
he wanted to, and so clinch the thing. It will prevent a lot of
frauds."

"Well, Tom, maybe you're right. Go ahead. I'll say no more against
your plans. I wish you all success, and if I can help you, call on
me."

"Thanks, Dad. I knew you'd feel that way when you understood. Now
I'm going--"

But what Tom Swift was going to do he did not say just then, for
above the heads of father and son sounded a rattling, crashing
noise, and the whole house seemed to shake. Then the voice of
Eradicate was heard yelling:

"Good land! Good land ob massy! Come out yeah, Massa Tom! Come
right out yeah! Dere's a man on de roof an' he am all tangled up
suthin' scandalous! Come right out yeah befo' he falls and
translocates his neck! Come on!"





CHAPTER II

BAD NEWS


With startled glances at each other, Tom and his father rushed
from the library to the side of the house, whence came the cries
of Eradicate.

"What is it, Rad! what is it?" questioned Tom.

"Is someone hurt?" Mr. Swift wanted to know.

"He mighty soon will be!" exclaimed the colored man. "Look where
he am holdin' on! Lucky fo' him he grabbed dat chimbley!"

Tom and his father looked to where Eradicate pointed, and saw a
strange sight. A small biplane-airship had become entangled in
some of the aerials of Tom's wireless apparatus, and the craft had
turned turtle, being held from falling by some of the wire braces.

The birdman had fallen out, but had managed to cling to the
chimney, so that he had not reached the ground, and there he
clung, while the motor of his airship was banging away, and
revolving the propeller blades dangerously close to his head.

"Are you hurt?" cried Tom, to the unknown birdman.

"No, but I'm likely to be unless I get out of here!" was the
gasped-out answer.

"Hold fast!" cried Tom. "We'll have you down in a jiffy. Here,
Rad, you get the long ladder. Where's Koku? That giant is never
around when he's wanted. Find Koku, Rad, and send him here."

"Yas, sah, Massa Tom; directly, sah!" and the colored man hastened
off as fast as his aged legs would take him.

And while preparations are thus under way to rescue the birdman
from the roof, I will take just a few minutes to tell you a little
something more about Tom Swift and his numerous inventions, as set
forth in the previous books of this series.

"Tom Swift and His Motor Cycle" was the first book, and in that I
related how Tom made the acquaintance of a Mr. Wakefield Damon, of
the neighboring town of Waterford, and how Tom bought that
gentleman's motor cycle, after it had tried to climb a tree with
its rider in the saddle. Mr. Wakefield Damon was an odd man, whose
favorite expression was "Bless my shoelaces!" or something equally
absurd. Waterford was not far from Shopton, where Tom and his
father made their home.

Mr. Swift was also an inventor of note, and Tom soon followed in
his father's footsteps. They lived in a large house, with many
shops about it, for their work at times required much machinery.

Mrs. Baggert was the housekeeper who looked after Tom and his
father, and got their meals, when they consented to take enough
time from their inventive work to eat. Another member of the
household was Eradicate Sampson, a genial old colored man, who
said he was named Eradicate because he used to eradicate the dirt
about the place.

Koku, just referred to by Tom, was an immense man, a veritable
giant, whom Tom had brought back with him from one of his trips,
after escaping from captivity. The young inventor really brought
two giants, brothers they were, but one had gone to a museum, and
the other took service with our hero, making himself very useful
when it came to lifting heavy machinery.

Tom had a close friend in Ned Newton, who was employed in the
Shopton bank. Another friend was Miss Mary Nestor, a young lady
whose life Tom had once saved. He had many other friends, and some
enemies, whom you will meet from time to time in this story.

After Tom had had many adventures on his motor cycle he acquired a
motor boat, and in that he and Ned went through some strenuous
times on Lake Carlopa, near Tom's home. Then followed an airship,
for Tom got that craze, and in the book concerning that machine I
related some of the things that happened to him. He had even more
wonderful adventures in his submarine, and with his electric
runabout our hero was instrumental in saving a bank from ruin by
making a trip in the speediest car on the road.

After Tom Swift had sent his wireless message, and saved the
castaways of Earthquake Island, he thought he would give up his
inventive work for a time, and settle down to a life of ease and
quiet.

But the call of the spirit of adventure was still too strong for
him to resist. That was why he sought out the diamond makers, and
learned the secret of Phantom Mountain. And when he went to the
Caves of Ice, and there saw his airship wrecked, Tom was well-nigh
discouraged, But he managed to get back to civilization, and later
undertook a journey to elephant land, with his powerful electric
rifle.

Marvelous adventures underground did Tom Swift have when he went
to the City of Gold, and I have set down some of them in the book
bearing the latter title. Later on he sought the platinum treasure
in his air glider. And when Tom was taken captive, in giant land,
only his speedy airship saved him from a hard fate.

By this time moving pictures were beginning to occupy a large
place in the scientific, as well as the amusement world, and Tom
invented a Wizard Camera which did excellent work. Then came the
need of a powerful light, to enable Uncle Sam's custom officers on
the border to detect the smugglers, and Tom was successful in
making his apparatus.

He thought he would take a rest after that, but with the opening
of the Panama Canal came the need of powerful guns to protect that
important waterway, and Tom made a Giant Cannon, which enabled the
longest shots on record to be fired.

Now, some months had passed, after the successful trial of the big
weapon, and Tom longed for new activities. He found them in the
idea of a photo telephone, and he and his father were just talking
of this when interrupted by the accident to the birdman on the
roof of the Swift home.

"Have you got that ladder, Rad?" cried the young inventor,
anxiously, as he saw the dangerous position of the man from the
airship.

"Yas, sah, Massa Tom! I'se a-camin' wif it!"

"And where's Koku? We'll need him!"

"He's a-camin', too!"

"Here Koku!" exclaimed a deep voice, and a big man came running
around the corner of the house. "What is it, Master?"

"We must get him down, Koku!" said Tom, simply. "I will go up on
the roof. You had better come, too. Rad, go in the house and get a
mattress from the bed. Put it down on the ground where he's likely
to fall. Lively now!"

"Yas, sah, Massa Tom!"

"Me git my own ladder--dat one not strong 'nuff!" grunted Koku,
who did not speak very good English. He had a very strong ladder,
of his own make, built to hold his enormous bulk, and this he soon
brought and placed against the side of the house.

Meanwhile Tom and his father had raised the one Eradicate had
brought, though Tom did most of the lifting, for his father was
elderly, and had once suffered from heart trouble.

"We're coming for you!" cried the young inventor as he began to
ascend the ladder, at the same time observing that the giant was
coming with his. "Can you hold on a little longer?"

"Yes, I guess so. But I dare not move for fear the propellers will
strike me."

"I see. I'll soon shut off the motor," said Tom. "What happened,
anyhow?"

"Well, I was flying over your house. I was on my way to pay you a
visit, but I didn't intend to do it in just this way," and the
birdman smiled grimly. "I didn't see your wireless aerials until I
was plumb into them, and then it was too late. I hope I haven't
damaged them any."

"Oh, they are easily fixed," said Tom. "I hope you and your
biplane are not damaged. This way, Koku!" he called to the giant.

"Say, is--is he real, or am I seeing things?" asked the aviator,
as he looked at the big man.

"Oh, he's real, all right," laughed Tom. "Now, then, I'm going to
shut off your motor, and then you can quit hugging that chimney,
and come down."

"I'll be real glad to," said the birdman.

Making his way cautiously along the gutters of the roof, Tom
managed to reach the motor controls. He pulled out the electrical
switch, and with a sort of cough and groan the motor stopped. The
big propellers ceased revolving, and the aviator could leave his
perch in safety.

This he did, edging along until he could climb down and meet Tom,
who stood near the ladder.

"Much obliged," said the birdman, as he shook hands with Tom. "My
name is Grant Halling. I'm a newcomer in Mansburg," he added,
naming a town not far from Shopton. "I know you by reputation, so
you don't need to introduce yourself."

"Glad to meet you," said the young inventor, cordially. "Rather a
queer place to meet a friend," he went on with a laugh and a
glance down to the ground. "Can you climb?"

"Oh, yes, I'm used to that. The next thing will be to get my
machine down."

"Oh, we can manage that with Koku's help," spoke Tom. "Koku, get
some ropes, and see what you and Rad can do toward getting the
aeroplane down," he added to the giant. "Let me know if you need
any help."

"Me can do!" exclaimed the big man. "Me fix him!"

Tom and Mr. Halling made their way down the ladder, while the
giant proceeded to study out a plan for getting the airship off
the roof.

"You say you were coming over to see me, when you ran into my
wireless aerials?" asked Tom, curiously, when he had introduced
his father to the birdman.

"Yes," went on Mr. Halling. "I have been having some trouble with
my motor, and I thought perhaps you could tell me what was wrong.
My friend, Mr. Wakefield Damon, sent me to you."

"What! Do you know Mr. Damon?" cried Tom.

"I've known' him for some years. I met him in the West, but I
hadn't seen him lately, until I came East. He sent me to see you,
and said you would help me."

"Well, any friend of Mr. Damon's is a friend of mine!" exclaimed
Tom, genially. "I'll have a look at your machine as soon as Koku
gets it down. How is Mr. Damon, anyhow? I haven't seen him in over
two weeks."

"I'm sorry to say he isn't very well, Mr. Swift."

"Is he ill? What is the trouble?"

"He isn't exactly ill," went on Mr. Halling, "but he is fretting
himself into a sickness, worrying over his lost fortune."

"His lost fortune!" cried Tom, in surprise at the bad news
concerning his friend. "I didn't know he had lost his money!"

"He hasn't yet, but he's in a fair way to, he says. It's something
about bad investments, and he did speak of the trickery of one
man, I didn't get the particulars. But he certainly feels very
badly over it."

"I should think he would," put in Mr. Swift. "Tom, we must look
into this. If we can help Mr. Damon--"

"We certainly will," interrupted Tom. "Now come in the house, Mr.
Halling. I'm sure you must be quite shaken up by your upset."

"I am, to tell you the truth, though it isn't the first accident
I've had in my airship."

They were proceeding toward the house, when there came a cry from
Koku, who had fastened a rope about the airship to lower it.

"Master! Master!" cried the giant. "The rope am slippin'. Grab the
end of it!"





CHAPTER III

TOM'S FAILURE


"Come on!" cried Tom, quickly, as, turning, he saw the accident
about to happen. "Your craft will surely be smashed if she slips
to the ground, Mr. Halling!"

"You're right! This seems to be my unlucky day!" The birdman,
limping slightly from his fall, hurried with Tom to where a rope
trailed on the ground. Koku had fastened one end to the airship,
and had taken a turn of the cable about the chimney. He had been
lowering the biplane to the ground, but he had not allowed for its
great weight, and the rope had slipped from his big hands.

But Tom and Mr. Halling were just in time. They grabbed the
slipping hempen strands, and thus checked the falling craft until
Koku could get a better grip.

"All right now," said the giant, when he had made fast the rope.
"Me fix now. Master can go."

"Think he can lower it?" asked Mr. Halling, doubtfully.

"Oh, surely," said Tom. "Koku's as strong as a horse. You needn't
worry. He'll get it down all right. But you are limping."

"Yes, I jammed my leg a little."

"Don't you want a doctor?"

"Oh, no, not for a little thing like that."

But Tom insisted on looking at his new friend's wound, and found
quite a cut on the thigh, which the young inventor insisted on
binding up.

"That feels better," said the birdman, as he stretched out on a
couch. "Now if you can look my machine over, and tell me what's
the matter with it, I'll be much obliged to you, and I'll get on
my way."

"Not quite so fast as that!" laughed Tom. "I wouldn't want to see
you start off with your lame leg, and certainly I would not want
to see you use your aircraft after what she's gone through, until
we've given her a test. You can't tell what part you might have
strained."

"Well, I suppose you are right. But I think I'd better go to a
hotel, or send for an auto and go home."

"Now you needn't do anything of the kind," spoke Tom, hospitably.
"We've got lots of room here, and for that matter we have plenty
of autos and airships, too, as well as a motor boat. You just rest
yourself here. Later we'll look over your craft."

After dinner, when Mr. Halling said he felt much better, Tom
agreed to go out with him and look at the airship. As he feared,
he found several things the matter with it, in addition to the
motor trouble which had been the cause for Mr. Halling's call on
the young inventor.

"Can she be fixed?" asked the birdman, who explained that, as yet,
he was only an amateur in the practice of flying.

"Oh, yes, we can fix her up for you," said Tom. "But it will take
several days. You'll have to leave it here."

"Well, I'll be glad to do that, for I know she will be all the
better when you get through with her. But I think I am able to go
on home now, and I really ought to. There is some business I must
attend to."

"Speaking of business," remarked Tom, "can you tell me anything
more of Mr. Damon's financial troubles?"

"No, not much. All I know is that when I called on him the other
day I found him with his check book out, and he was doing a lot of
figuring. He looked pretty blue and downcast, I can tell you."

"I'm sorry about that," spoke Tom, musingly. "Mr. Damon is a very
good friend of mine, and I'd do anything to help him. I certainly
wouldn't like to see him lose his fortune. Bad investments, you
say it was?"

"Partly so, and yet I'm inclined to think if he does lose his
money it will be due to some trickery. Mr. Damon is not the man to
make bad investments by himself."

"Indeed he is not," agreed Tom. "You say he spoke of some man?"

"Yes, but not definitely. He did not mention any name. But Mr.
Damon was certainly quite blue."

"That's unlike him," remarked Tom. "He is usually very jolly. He
must be feeling quite badly. I'll go over and have a talk with
him, as soon as I can."

"Do. I think he would appreciate it. And now I must see about
getting home."

"I'll take you in one of my cars," said Tom, who had several
automobiles. "I don't want to see you strain that injured leg of
yours."

"You're very good--especially after I tangled up your wireless
aerials; but I didn't see them until I was right into them,"
apologized Mr. Halling.

"They're a new kind of wire," said Tom, "and are not very plain to
see. I must put up some warning signs. But don't worry about
damaging them. They were only up temporarily anyhow, and I was
going to take them down to arrange for my photo telephone."

"Photo telephone, eh? Is that something new?"

"It will be--if I can get it working," said Tom, with a smile.

A little later Tom had taken Mr. Halling home, and then he set
about making arrangements for repairing the damaged airship. This
took him the better part of a week, but he did not regret the
time, for while he was working he was busy making plans for his
newest invention--the photo telephone.

One afternoon, when Tom had completed the repairs to the airship,
and had spent some time setting up an experimental telephone line,
the young inventor received a call from his chum, Ned Newton.

"Well, well, what are you up to now?" asked Ned, as he saw his
chum seated in a booth, with a telephone receiver to his ear,
meanwhile looking steadily at a polished metal plate in front of
him. "Trying to hypnotize yourself, Tom?"

"Not exactly. Quiet, Ned, please. I'm trying to listen."

Ned was too familiar with his chum's work to take offense at this.
The young banker took a seat on a box, and silently watched Tom.
The inventor shifted several switches, pressed one button after
another, and tilted the polished metal plate at different angles.
Then he closed the door of the little telephone booth, and Ned,
through the ground glass door, saw a light shining.

"I wonder what new game Tom is up to?" Ned mused.

Presently the door opened, and Tom stuck out his head.

"Ned, come here," he invited. "Look at that metal plate and see if
you can notice anything on it. I've been staring at it so steadily
that my eyes are full of sticks. See what you can make out."

"What is this?" asked Ned. "No trick; is it? I won't be blown up,
or get my eyes full of pepper; will I?"

"Nonsense! Of course not. I'm trying to make a photo telephone. I
have the telephone part down pat, but I can't see anything of the
photo image. See if you can."

Ned stared at the polished plate, while Tom did things to it,
making electrical connections, and tilting it at various angles.

"See anything, Ned?" asked Tom.

The other shook his head.

"Whom am I supposed to see?" he asked.

"Why, Koku is at the other end of the wire. I'm having him help
me."

Ned gazed from the polished plate out of a side window of the
shop, into the yard.

"Well, that Koku is certainly a wonderful giant," said Ned, with a
laugh.

"How so?" asked Tom.

"Why he can not be in two places at once. You say he ought to be
at the other end of this wire, and there he is out there, spading
up the garden."

Tom stared for a second and then exclaimed:

"Well, if that isn't the limit! I put him in the telephone booth
in the machine shop, and told him to stay there until I was
through. What in the world is he doing out there?"

"Koku!" he called to the giant, "why didn't you stay at the
telephone where I put you? Why did you run away?"

"Ha!" exclaimed the giant, who, for all his great size was a
simple chap, "little thing go 'tick-tick' and then 'clap-clap!'
Koku no like--Koku t'ink bad spirit in telumfoam--Koku come out!"

"Well, no wonder I couldn't see any image on the plate!" exclaimed
Tom. "There was nobody there. Now, Ned, you try it; will you,
please?"

"Sure. Anything to oblige!"

"Then go in the other telephone booth. You can talk to me on the
wire. Say anything you like--the telephone part is all right. Then
you just stand so that the light in the booth shines on your face.
The machine will do the rest--if it works."

Ned hurried off and was soon talking to his chum over the wire
from the branch telephone in the machine shop. Ned stood in the
glare of an electric light, and looked at a polished plate similar
to the one in the other booth.

"Are you there, Ned?" asked Tom.

"Yes, I'm here."

"Is the light on?"

"Yes."

"And you're looking at the plate?"

"Sure. Can you see any reflection in your plate?"

"No, not a thing," answered Tom, and there was great
discouragement in his voice. "The thing is a failure, Ned. Come on
back," and the young banker could hear his chum hang up the
telephone receiver at the other end.

"That's too bad," murmured Ned, knowing how Tom must feel. "I'll
have to cheer him up a bit."





CHAPTER IV

RUN DOWN


When Ned Newton got back to where Tom sat in the small telephone
booth, the young banker found his chum staring rather moodily at
the polished metal plate on the shelf that held the talking
instrument.

"So it was no go; eh, Tom?"

"No go at all, Ned, and I thought sure I had it right this time."

"Then this isn't your first experiment?"

"Land no! I've been at it, off and on, for over a month, and I
can't seem to get any farther. I'm up against a snag now, good and
hard."

"Then there wasn't any image on your plate?"

"Not a thing, Ned. I don't suppose you caught any glimpse of me in
your plate?" asked Tom, half hopefully.

"No. I couldn't see a thing. So you are going to try and make this
thing work both ways, are you?"

"That's my intention, But I can fix it so that a person can
control the apparatus at his end, and only see the person he is
talking to, not being seen himself, unless he wishes it. That is,
I hope to do that. Just now nobody can see anybody," and Tom
sighed.

"Give it up," advised Ned. "It's too hard a nut to crack, Tom!"

"Indeed, I'll not give it up, Ned! I'm going to work along a new
line. I must try a different solution of selenium on the metal
plate. Perhaps I may have to try using a sensitized plate, and
develop it later, though I do want to get the machine down so you
can see a perfect image without the need of developing. And I
will, too!" cried Tom. "I'll get some new selenium."

Eradicate, who came into the shop just then, heard the end of
Tom's remarks. A strange look came over his honest black face, and
he exclaimed:

"What all am dat, Massa Tom? Yo'ah gwine t' bring de new millenium
heah? Dat's de end of de world, ain't it-dat millenium? Golly!
Dish yeah coon neber 'spected t' lib t' see dat. De millenium! Oh
mah landy!"

"No, Rad!" laughed Tom. "I was speaking about selenium, a sort of
metallic combination that is a peculiar conductor of electricity.
The more light that shines on it the better conductor it is, and
the less light, the poorer."

"It must be queer stuff," said Ned.

"It is," declared Tom. "I think it is the only thing to use in
this photo telephone experiment, though I might try the metal
plate method, as they did between Monte Carlo and Paris. But I am
not trying to make newspaper pictures."

"What is selenium, anyhow?" asked Ned. "Remember, Tom, I'm not up
on this scientific stuff as you are."

"Selenium," went on Tom, "was discovered in 1817, by J. J.
Berzelius, and he gave it that name from the Greek word for moon,
on account of selenium being so similar, in some ways, to
tellurium. That last is named after the Latin word tellus, the
earth."

"Do they dig it?" Ned wanted to know.

"Well, sometimes selenium is found in combination with metals, in
the form of selenides, the more important minerals of that kind
being eucharite, crooksite, clausthalite, naumannite and zorgite--"

"Good night!" interrupted Ned, with a laugh, holding up his hands.
"Stop it, Tom!" he pleaded. "You'll give me a headache with all
those big words."

"Oh, they're easy, once you get used to them," said the young
inventor, with a smile. "Perhaps it will be easier if I say that
sometimes selenium is found in native sulphur. Selenium is usually
obtained from the flue-dust or chamber deposits of some factory
where sulphuric acid is made. They take this dust and treat it
with acids until they get the pure selenium. Sometimes selenium
comes in crystal forms, and again it is combined with various
metals for different uses."

"There's one good thing about it. There are several varieties, and
I'll try them all before I give up."

"That's the way to talk!" cried Ned. "Never say die! Don't give up
the ship, and all that. But, Tom, what you need now is a little
fun. You've been poking away at this too long. Come on out on the
lake, and have a ride in the motor boat. It will do you good. It
will do me good. I'm a bit rusty myself--been working hard lately.
Come on--let's go out on the lake."

"I believe I will!" exclaimed Tom, after thinking it over for a
moment. "I need a little fresh air. Sitting in that telephone
booth, trying to get an image on a plate, and not succeeding, has
gotten on my nerves. I want to write out an order for Koku to take
to town, though. I want to get some fresh selenium, and then I'm
going to make new plates."

Tom made some memoranda, and then, giving Koku the order for the
chemist, the young inventor closed up his shop, and went with Ned
down to Lake Carlopa, where the motor boat was moored.

This was not the same boat Tom had first purchased, some years
ago, but a comparatively new and powerful craft.

"It sure is one grand little day for a ride," remarked Ned, as he
got in the craft, while Tom looked over the engine.

"Yes, I'm glad you came over, and routed me out," said the young
inventor. "When I get going on a thing I don't know enough to
stop. Oh, I forgot something!"

"What?" asked Ned.

"I forgot to leave word about Mr. Railing's airship. It's all
fixed and ready for him, but I put on a new control, and I wanted
to explain to him about it. He might not know how to work it. I
left word with father, though, that if he came for it he must not
try it until he had seen me. I guess it will be all right. I don't
want to go back to the house now."

"No, it's too far," agreed Ned.

"I have it!" exclaimed Tom. "I'll telephone to dad from here, not
to let Halling go up until I come back. He may not come for his
machine; but, if he does, it's best to be on the safe side Ned."

"Oh, sure."

Accordingly, Tom 'phoned from his boat-house, and Mr. Swift
promised to see the bird-man if he called. Then Ned and Tom gave
themselves up to the delights of a trip on the water.

The Kilo, which name Tom had selected for his new craft, was a
powerful boat, and comfortable. It swept on down the lake, and
many other persons, in their pleasure craft, turned to look at
Tom's fine one.

"Lots of folks out to-day," observed Ned, as they went around a
point of the shore.

"Yes, quite a number," agreed Tom, leaning forward to adjust the
motor. "I wonder what's got into her?" he said, in some annoyance,
as he made various adjustments. "One of the cylinders is missing."

"Maybe it needs a new spark plug," suggested Ned.

"Maybe. Guess I'll stop and put one in."

Tom slowed down the motor, and headed his boat over toward shore,
intending to tie up there for a while.

As he shifted the wheel he heard a cry behind him, and at the same
time a hoarse, domineering voice called out:

"Here, what do you mean, changing your course that way? Look out,
or I'll run you down! Get out of my way, you land-lubber, you!"

Startled, Ned and Tom turned. They saw, rushing up on them from
astern, a powerful red motor boat, at the wheel of which sat a
stout man, with a very florid face and a commanding air.

"Get out of my way!" he cried. "I can't stop so short! Look out,
or I'll run you down!"

Tom, with a fierce feeling of resentment at the fellow, was about
to shift the course of the Kilo, but he was too late.

A moment later there came a smashing blow on the stern port
quarter and the Kilo heeled over at a dangerous angle, while, with
a rending, splintering sound of wood, the big red motorboat swept
on past Tom and Ned, her rubstreak grinding along the side of the
Kilo.





CHAPTER V

SHARP WORDS


"Great Scott, Tom! What happened?"

"I know as much as you, Ned. That fellow ran us down, that's all."

"Are we leaking?" and with this question Ned sprang from his place
near the bow, and looked toward the stern, where the heaviest blow
had been struck.

The Kilo had swung back to an even keel again, but was still
bobbing about on the water.

"Any hole there?" cried Tom, as he swung the wheel over to point
his craft toward shore, in case she showed a tendency to sink.

"I can't see any hole," answered Ned. "But water is coming in
here."

"Then there's a leak all right! Probably some of the seams are
opened, or it may be coming in around the shaft stuffing-box.
Here, Ned, take the wheel, and I'll start up the engine again,"
for with the blow the motor had stopped.

"What are you going to do?" asked Ned, as he again made his way
forward.

"Take her to shore, of course. It's deep out here and I don't want
her to go down at this point."

"Say, what do you think of that fellow, anyhow, Tom?"

"I wouldn't like to tell you. Look, he's coming back."

This was so, for, as the boys watched, the big red motor boat had
swung about in a circle and was headed for them.

"I'll tell him what I think of him, at any rate," murmured Tom, as
he bent over his motor. "And, later on, I'll let the lawyers talk
to him."

"You mean you'll sue him, Tom?"

"Well, I'm certainly not going to let him run into me and spring a
leak, for nothing. That won't go with me!"

By this time Tom had the motor started, but he throttled it down
so that it just turned the propeller. With it running at full
speed there was considerable vibration, and this would further
open the leaking seams. So much water might thus be let in that
the craft could not be gotten ashore.

"Head her over, Ned," cried Tom, when he found he had sufficient
headway. "Steer for Ramsey's dock. There's a marine railway next
to him, and I can haul her out for repairs."

"That's the talk, Tom!" cried his chum.

By this time the big, red motor boat was close beside Tom's craft.

The man at the wheel, a stout-bodied and stout-faced man, with a
complexion nearly the color of his boat, glared at the two young
men.

"What do you fellows mean?" called out the man, in deep booming
tones--tones that he tried to make imposing, but which, to the
trained ears of Tom and Ned, sounded only like the enraged bellow
of some bully. "What do you mean, I say? Getting on my course like
that!"

Ned could see Tom biting his lips, and clenching his hands to keep
down his temper. But it was too much. To be run into, and then
insulted, was more than Tom could stand.

"Look here!" he cried, standing up and facing the red-faced man,
"I don't know who you are, and I don't care. But I'll tell you one
thing--you'll pay for the damage you did to my boat!"

"I'll pay for it? Come, that's pretty good! Ha! Ha!" laughed the
self-important man. "Why, I was thinking of making a complaint
against you for crossing my course that way. If I find my boat is
damaged I shall certainly do so anyhow. Have we suffered any
damage, Snuffin?" and he looked back at a grimy-faced mechinician
who was oiling the big, throbbing motor, which was now running
with the clutch out.

"No, sir, I don't think we're damaged, sir," answered the man,
deferentially.

"Well, it's a lucky thing for these land-lubbers that we aren't. I
should certainly sue them. The idea of crossing my course the way
they did. Weren't they in the wrong, Snuffin?"

The man hesitated for a moment, and glanced at Tom and Ned, as
though asking their indulgence.

"Well, I asked you a question, Snuffin!" exclaimed the red-faced
man sharply.

"Yes--yes, sir, they shouldn't have turned the way they did,"
answered the man, in a low voice.

"Well, of all the nerve!" murmured Tom, and stopped his motor.
Then, stepping to the side of his disabled and leaking boat, he
exclaimed:

"Look here! Either you folks don't know anything about navigation
rules, or you aren't heeding them. I had a perfect right to turn
and go ashore when I did, for I found my engine was out of order,
and I wanted to fix it. I blew the usual signal on the whistle,
showing my intention to turn off my course, and if you had been
listening you would have heard it."

"If you had even been watching you would have seen me shift, and
then, coming on at the speed you did, it was your place to warn me
by a whistle, so that I could keep straight on until you had
passed me."

"But you did not. You kept right on and ran into me, and the only
wonder is that you didn't sink me. Talk about me getting in your
way! Why, you deliberately ran me down after I had given the right
signal. I'll make a complaint against you, that's what I will."

If possible the red-faced man got even more rosy than usual. He
fairly puffed up, he was so angry.

"Listen to that, will you, Snuffin!" he cried. "Listen to that! He
says he blew his whistle to tell us he was going to turn in."

"That's what I did!" said Tom, calmly.

"Preposterous! Did you hear it, Snuffin?" puffed the important
man.

"Yes--yes, I think I did, sir," answered the machinist, in a
hesitating voice.

"You did? What! You mean to tell me you heard their whistle?"

"Yes--yes, sir!"

"Why--why--er--I--" the big man puffed and blew, but seemed to
find no words in which to express himself. "Snuffin, I'll have a
talk with you when we get home," he finally said, most significantly.
"The idea of saying you heard a whistle blown! There was nothing of
the kind! I shall make a complaint against these land-lubbers myself.
Do you know who they are, Snuffin?"

"Yes--yes, sir," was the answer, as the man glanced at Tom. "At
least I know one of them, sir."

"Very good. Give me his name. I'll attend to the rest."

Tom looked at the big man sharply. He had never seen him before,
as far as he could recall. As for the machinist, the young
inventor had a dim recollection that once the man might have
worked in his shop.

"Go ahead, Snuffin!" said the big man, mopping his face with a
large silk handkerchief, which, even at that distance, gave out a
powerful perfume. "Go ahead, Snuffin, and we will settle this
matter later," and, adjusting a large rose in his buttonhole, the
self-important individual took his place on the cushioned seat at
the wheel, while the big red motor boat drew off down the river.

"Well, of all the nerve!" gasped Ned. "Isn't he the limit?"

"Never mind," spoke Tom, with a little laugh. "I'm sorry I lost my
temper, and even bothered to answer him. We'll let the lawyers do
the rest of the talking. Take the wheel, Ned."

"But are you going to let him get away like this, Tom? Without
asking him to pay for the damage to your boat, when he was clearly
in the wrong?"

"Oh, I'll ask him to pay all right; but I'll do it the proper way.
Now come on. If we stay here chinning much longer the Kilo will go
down. I must find out who he is. I think I know Snuffin--he used
to work for me, I now recall."

"Don't you know who that big man is?" asked Ned, as he took the
wheel, while Tom again started the motor. The water was now almost
up to the lower rim of the fly wheel.

"No; who is he?" asked Tom.

"Shallock Peters."

"Well, I know as much as I did before," laughed Tom. "That doesn't
tell me anything."

"Why, I thought everybody in the town knew Shallock Peters," went
on Ned. "He tried to do some business with our bank, but was
turned down. I hear he's gone to the other one, though. He's what
we call a get-rich-quick schemer, Tom--a promoter."

"I thought he acted like that sort of a character."

"Well, that's what he is. He's got half a dozen schemes under way,
and he hasn't been in town over a month. I wonder you haven't seen
or heard of him."

"I've been too busy over my photo telephone."

"I suppose so. Well, this fellow Peters struck Shopton about a
month ago. He bought the old Wardell homestead, and began to show
off at once. He's got two autos, and this big motor boat. He
always goes around with a silk hat and a flower in his buttonhole.
A big bluff--that's what he is."

"He acted so to me," was Tom's comment. "Well, he isn't going to
scare me. The idea! Why, he seemed to think we were in the wrong;
whereas he was, and his man knew it, too."

"Yes, but the poor fellow was afraid to say so. I felt sorry for
him."

"So did I," added Tom. "Well, Kilo is out of commission for the
present. Guess we'll have to finish our outing by walking, Ned."

"Oh, I don't mind. But it makes me mad to have a fellow act the
way he did."

"Well, there's no good in getting mad," was Tom's smiling
rejoinder. "We'll take it out of him legally. That's the best way
in the end. But I can't help saying I don't like Mr. Shallock
Peters."

"And I don't either," added Ned.





CHAPTER VI

A WARNING


"There, she's about right now, Ned. Hold her there!"

"Aye, aye, Captain Tom!"

"Jove, she's leaking like a sieve! We only got her here just in
time!"

"That's right," agreed Ned.

Tom and his chum had managed to get the Kilo to Ramsey's dock, and
over the ways of the inclined marine railway that led from the
shop on shore down into the river. Then, poling the craft along,
until she was in the "cradle," Ned held her there while Tom went
on shore to wind up the windlass that pulled the car, containing
the boat, up the incline.

"I'll give you a hand, as soon as I find she sets level," called
Ned, from his place in the boat.

"All right--don't worry. There are good gears on this windlass,
and she works easy," replied Tom.

In a short time the boat was out of the water, but, as Tom grimly
remarked, "the water was not out of her," for a stream poured from
the stuffing-box, through which the propeller shaft entered, and
water also ran out through the seams that had been opened by the
collision.

"Quite a smash, Tom," observed the boat repairer, when he had come
out to look over the Kilo. "How'd it happen?"

"Oh, Shallock Peters, with his big red boat, ran into us!" said
Ned, sharply.

"Ha, Peters; eh?" exclaimed the boatman. "That's the second craft
he's damaged inside a week with his speed mania. There's Bert
Johnson's little speeder over there," and he pointed to one over
which some men were working. "Had to put a whole new stern in her,
and what do you think that man Peters did?"

"What?" asked Tom, as he bent down to see how much damage his
craft had sustained.

"He wouldn't pay young Johnson a cent of money for the repairs,"
went on Mr. Houston, the boatman. "It was all Peters's fault,
too."

"Couldn't he make him pay?" asked Tom.

"Well, young Johnson asked for it--no more than right, too; but
Peters only sneered and laughed at him."

"Why didn't he sue?" asked Ned.

"Costs too much money to hire lawyers, I reckon. So he played you
the same trick; eh, Tom?"

"Pretty much, yes. But he won't get off so easily, I can tell you
that!" and there was a grim and determined look on the face of the
young inventor. "How long will it take to fix my boat, Mr.
Houston?"

"Nigh onto two weeks, Tom. I'm terrible rushed now."

Tom whistled ruefully.

"I could do it myself quicker, if I could get her back to my
shop," he said. "But she'd sink on the home trip. All right, do
the best you can, Mr. Houston."

"I will that, Tom."

The two chums walked out of the boat-repair place.

"What are you going to do, Tom?" asked Ned, as they strolled
along.

"Well, since we can't go motor boating, I guess I may as well go
back and see if that new supply of selenium has come. I do want to
get my photo telephone working, Ned."

"And that's all the outing you're going to take--less than an
hour!" exclaimed Ned, reproachfully.

"Oh, well, all you wanted to do was to get me out of a rut, as you
called it," laughed Tom. "And you've done it--you and Mr. Peters
together. It jolted up my brain, and I guess I can think better
now. Come on back and watch me tinker away, Ned."

"Not much! I'm going to stay out and get some fresh air while I
can. You'd better, too."

"I will, later."

So Tom turned back to his workshop, and Ned strolled on into the
country, for his day's work at the bank was over. And for some
time after that--until far into the night--Tom Swift worked at the
knotty problem of the photo telephone.

But the young inventor was baffled. Try as he might, he could not
get the image to show on the metal plate, nor could he get any
results by using a regular photographic plate, and developing it
afterward.

"There is something wrong with the transmission of the light waves
over the wire," Tom confessed to his father.

"You'll never do it, Tom," said the aged inventor. "You are only
wasting a whole lot of time."

"Well, as I haven't anything else to do now, it isn't much loss,"
spoke Tom, ruefully. "But I'm going to make this work, Dad!"

"All right, son. It's up to you. Only I tell you it can't be
done."

Tom, himself, was almost ready to admit this, when, a week later,
he seemed to be no nearer a solution of the problem than he was at
first. He had tried everything he could think of, and he had
Eradicate and Koku, the giant, almost distracted, by making them
stay in small telephone booths for hours at a time, while the
young inventor tried to get some reflection of one face or the
other to come over the wire.

Koku finally got so nervous over the matter, that he flatly
refused to "pose" any longer, so Tom was forced to use Eradicate.
As for that elderly man of all work, after many trials, all
unsuccessful, he remarked:

"Massa Tom, I reckon I knows what's wrong."

"Yes, Rad? Well, what is it?"

"Mah face am too black--dat's de trouble. You done want a
white-complected gen'man to stand in dat booth an' look at dat lookin'
glass plate. I'se too black! I suah is!"

"No, that isn't it, Rad," laughed Tom, hopelessly. "If the thing
works at all it will send a black man's face over the wire as well
as a white man's. I guess the truth of it is that you're like
Koku. You're getting tired. I don't know as I blame you. I'm
getting a bit weary myself. I'm going to take a rest. I'll send
for another kind of selenium crystals I've heard of, and we'll try
them. In the meanwhile--I'll take a little vacation."

"Get out my small airship, Rad, and I'll take a little flight."

"Dat's de way to talk, Massa Tom," was the glad rejoinder.

"I'm going over to see Mr. Damon, Father," announced Tom to Mr.
Swift a little later, when his speedy monoplane was waiting for
him. "I haven't seen him in some time, and I'd like to get at the
truth of what Mr. Halling said about Mr. Damon's fortune being in
danger. I'll be back soon."

"All right, Tom. And say--"

"Yes, Dad, what is it?" asked Tom, as he paused in the act of
getting in the seat.

"If he wants any ready cash, you know we've got plenty."

"Oh, sure. I was going to tell him we'd help him out."

Then, as Koku spun the propeller blades, Tom grasped the steering
wheel, and, tilting the elevating rudder, he was soon soaring into
the air, he and his craft becoming smaller and smaller as they
were lost to sight in the distance, while the rattle and roar of
the powerful motor became fainter.

In a comparatively short time Tom had made a successful landing in
the big yard in front of Mr. Damon's house, and, walking up the
path, kept a lookout for his friend.

"I wonder why he didn't come out to meet me?" mused Tom, for
usually when the eccentric man heard the throbbing of Tom's motor,
he was out waiting for the young inventor. But this time it was
not the case.

"Is Mr. Damon in?" Tom asked of the maid who answered his ring.

"Yes, Mr. Swift. You'll find him in the library," and she ushered
him in.

"Oh, hello, Tom," greeted Mr. Damon, but the tone was so listless,
and his friend's manner so gloomy that the young inventor was
quite embarrassed.

"Have a chair," went on Mr. Damon. "I'll talk to you in a minute,
Tom. I've got to finish this letter, and it's a hard one to write,
let me tell you."

Now Tom was more astonished than ever. Not once had Mr. Damon
"blessed," anything, and when this did not happen Tom was sure
something was wrong. He waited until his friend had sealed the
letter, and turned to him with a sigh. Then Tom said boldly:

"Mr. Damon, is it true that you're having hard luck--in money
matters?"

"Why, yes, Tom, I'm afraid I am," was the quick answer. "But who
told you?"

"Grant Halling. He was over to get me to fix his airship," and Tom
briefly related what had happened.

"Oh, yes, I did mention the matter to him," went on Mr. Damon, and
his tone was still listless. "So he told you; did he? Well,
matters aren't any better, Tom. In fact, they're worse. I just had
to write to a man who was asking for help, and I had to refuse
him, though he needs it very much. The truth is I hadn't the
money. Tom, I'm afraid I'm going to be a very poor man soon."

"Impossible, Mr. Damon! Why, I thought your investments--"

"I've made some bad ones of late, Tom. I've been pretty foolish,
I'm afraid. I drew out some money I had in government bonds, and
invested in certain stocks sold by a Mr. Shallock Peters."

"Shallock Peters!" cried Tom, almost jumping out of his chair.
"Why, I know him--I mean I've met him."

"Have you, Tom? Well, then, all I've got to say is to steer clear
of him, my boy. Don't have anything to do with him," and, with
something of a return of his usual energy Mr. Damon banged his
fist down on his desk. "Give him a wide berth, Tom, and if you see
him coming, turn your back. He'd talk a miser into giving him his
last cent. Keep away from Shallock Peters, Tom. Bless my necktie,
he's a scoundrel, that's what he is!" and again Mr. Damon banged
his desk forcibly.





CHAPTER VII

SOFT WORDS


"Well, I'm glad of one thing!" exclaimed Tom, when the ink bottle
and the paper cutter on Mr. Damon's desk had ceased rattling,
because of the violence of the blow. "I'm glad of one thing."

"What's that, Tom?" asked his friend.

"I heard you bless something at last--the first time since I came
in."

"Oh!" and Mr. Damon laughed. "Well, Tom, I haven't been blessing
things lately--that's a fact. I haven't had the heart for it.
There are too many business complications. I wish I'd never met
this Peters."

"So do I," said Tom. "My motor boat would not have been damaged
then."

"Did he do that, Tom?"

"He certainly did, and then he accused me of being at fault."

"That would be just like him. Tell me about it, Tom."

When the young inventor finished the story of the collision Mr.
Damon sat silent for a moment. Then he remarked slowly:

"That's just like Peters. A big bluff--that's what he is. I wish
I'd discovered that fact sooner--I'd be money in pocket. But I
allowed myself to be deceived by his talk about big profits. At
first he seemed like a smart business man, and he certainly had
fine recommendations. But I am inclined to believe, now, that the
recommendations were forged."

"What did he do to you, Mr. Damon?" asked Tom, with ready
sympathy.

"It's too complicated to go into details over, Tom, but to make a
long story short, he got me to invest nearly all my fortune in
some enterprises that, I fear, are doomed to failure. And if they
do fail, I'll be a ruined man."

"No, you won't!" exclaimed Tom. "That's one reason why I came here
to-day. Father told me to offer you all the ready money you needed
to get out of your trouble. How much do you need, Mr. Damon?"

"Bless my collar button! That's like your father, Tom," and now
Mr. Damon seemed more like his old self. "Bless my shoes, a man
never knows who his real friends are until trouble comes. I can't
say how I thank you and your father, Tom. But I'm not going to
take advantage of him."

"It wouldn't be taking any advantage of him, Mr. Damon. He has
money lying idle, and he'd like to have you use it."

"Well, Tom, I might use it, if I had only myself to think about.
But there's no use in throwing good money after bad. If I took
yours now this fellow Peters would only get it, and that would be
the last of it."

"No, Tom, thank you and your father just the same, but I'll try to
weather the storm a bit longer myself. Then, if I do go down I
won't drag anybody else with me. I'll hang on to the wreck a bit
longer. The storm may blow over, or--or something may happen to
this fellow Peters."

"Has he really got you in his grip, Mr. Damon?"

"He has, and, to a certain extent, it's my own fault. I should
have been suspicious of him. And now, Tom, let me give you a
further word of warning. You heard me say to steer clear of this
Peters?"

"Yes, and I'm going to. But I'm going to make him pay for damaging
my boat, if I possibly can."

"Maybe it would be wiser not to try that, Tom. I tell you he's a
tricky man. And one thing more. I have heard that this man Peters
makes a specialty of organizing companies to take up new
inventions."

"Is that so?" asked Tom, interestedly.

"Yes, but that's as far as it goes. Peters gets the invention, and
the man, out of whose brain it came, gets nothing."

"In other words, he swindles them?"

"That's it, Tom. If not in one way, then in another. He cheats
them out of the profits of their inventions. So I want to warn you
to be on the lookout."

"Don't worry," said Tom. "Peters will get nothing from my father
or me. We'll be on our guard. Not that I think he will try it, but
it's just as well to be warned. I didn't like him from the moment
he ran into me, and, now that I know what he has done to you, I
like him still less. He won't get anything from me!"

"I'm glad to hear you say so, Tom. I wish he'd gotten nothing out
of me."

"Are you sure you won't let my father help you, financially, Mr.
Damon?"

"No, Tom, at least not for the present. I'm going to make another
fight to hold on to my fortune. If I find I can't do it alone,
then I'll call on you. I'm real glad you called. Bless my
shoestring! I feel better now."

"I'm glad of it," laughed Tom, and he saw that his friend was in a
better state of mind, as his "blessings" showed.

Tom remained for a little longer, talking to Mr. Damon, and then
took his leave, flying back home in the airship.

"Gen'man t' see yo', Massa Tom," announced Eradicate, as he helped
Tom wheel the monoplane back into the shed.

"Is that so, Rad? Where is he?"

"Settin' in th' library. Yo' father am out, so I asted him in
dere."

"That's right, Rad. Who is he, do you know?"

"No, sah, Massa Tom, I doan't. He shore does use a pow'ful nice
perfume on his pocket hanky, though. Yum-yum!"

"Perfume!" exclaimed Tom, his mind going back to the day he had
had the trouble with Mr. Peters. "Is he a big, red-faced man,
Rad?"

"No, sah, Massa Tom. He's a white-faced, skinny man."

"Then it can't be Peters," mused Tom. "I guess perhaps it's that
lawyer I wrote to about bringing suit to get back what it cost me
to have the Kilo fixed. I'll see him at once. Oh, by the way, it
isn't Mr. Grant Halling; is it? The gentleman who got tangled up
in our aerials with his airship? Is it he?"

"No, sah, Massa Tom. 'Tain't him."

"I thought perhaps he had gotten into more trouble," mused Tom, as
he took off his airship "togs," and started for the house. For Mr.
Halling had called for his repaired airship some time ago, and had
promised to pay Tom another and more conventional visit, some
future day.

Tom did not know the visitor whom he greeted in the library a
little later. The man, as Eradicate had said, was rather pale of
face, and certainly he was not very fleshy.

"Mr. Tom Swift, I think?" said the man, rising and holding out his
hand.

"That's my name. I don't believe I know you, though."

"No, I haven't your reputation," said the man, with a laugh that
Tom did not like. "We can't all be great inventors like you," and,
somehow, Tom liked the man less than before, for he detected an
undertone of sneering patronage in the words. Tom disliked praise,
and he felt that this was not sincere.

"I have called on a little matter of business," went on the man.
"My name is Harrison Boylan, and I represent Mr. Shallock Peters."

Instinctively Tom stiffened. Receiving a call from a
representative of the man against whom Mr. Damon had warned him
only a short time before was a strange coincidence, Tom thought.

"You had some little accident, when your motor boat and that of
Mr. Peters collided, a brief time ago; did you not?" went on Mr.
Boylan.

"I did," said Tom, and, as he motioned the caller to be seated Tom
saw, with a start, that some of the drawings of his photo
telephone were lying on a desk in plain sight. They were within
easy reach of the man, and Tom thought the sheets looked as though
they had been recently handled. They were not in the orderly array
Tom had made of them before going out.

"If he is a spy, and has been looking at them," mused Tom, "he may
steal my invention." Then he calmed himself, as he realized that
he, himself, had not yet perfected his latest idea. "I guess he
couldn't make much of the drawings," Tom thought.

"Yes, the collision was most unfortunate," went on Mr. Boylan,
"and Mr. Peters has instructed me to say--"

"If he's told you to say that it was my fault, you may as well
save your time," cut in Tom. "I don't want to be impolite, but I
have my own opinion of the affair. And I might add that I have
instructed a lawyer to begin a suit against Mr. Peters--"

"No necessity for that at all!" interrupted the man, in soft
accents. "No necessity at all. I am sorry you did that, for there
was no need. Mr. Peters has instructed me to say that he realizes
the accident was entirely his own fault, and he is very willing--nay,
anxious, to pay all damages. In fact, that is why I am here,
and I am empowered, my dear Mr. Swift, to offer you five hundred
dollars, to pay for the repairs to your motor boat. If that is not
enough--"

The man paused, and drew a thick wallet from his pocket. Tom felt
a little embarrassed over what he had said.

"Oh," spoke the young inventor, "the repair bill is only about
three hundred dollars. I'm sorry--"

"Now that's all right, Mr. Swift! It's all right," and the man,
with his soft words, raised a white, restraining hand. "Not
another word. Mr. Peters did not know who you were that day he so
unfortunately ran into you. If he had, he would not have spoken as
he did. He supposed you were some amateur motor-boatist, and he
was--well, he admits it--he was provoked."

"Since then he has made inquiries, and, learning who you were, he
at once authorized me to make a settlement in full. So if five
hundred dollars--"

"The repair bill," said Tom, and his voice was not very cordial,
in spite of the other's persuasive smile, "the bill came to three
hundred forty-seven dollars. Here is the receipted bill. I paid
it, and, to be frank with you, I intended bringing suit against
Mr. Peters for that sum."

"No need, no need at all, I assure you!" interrupted Mr. Boylan,
as he counted off some bills. "There you are, and I regret that
you and Mr. Peters had such a misunderstanding. It was all his
fault, and he wants to apologize to you."

"The apology is accepted," said Tom, and he smiled a trifle. "Also
the money. I take it merely as a matter of justice, for I assure
you that Mr. Peters's own machinist will say the accident was his
employer's fault."

"No doubt of it, not the least in the world," said the caller.
"And now that I have this disagreeable business over, let me speak
of something more pleasant."

Instinctively Tom felt that now the real object of the man's call
would be made plain--that the matter of paying the damages was
only a blind. Tom steeled himself for what was to come.

"You know, I suppose," went on Mr. Boylan, smiling at Tom, "that
Mr. Peters is a man of many and large interests."

"I have heard something like that," said Tom, cautiously.

"Yes. Well, he is an organizer--a promoter, if you like. He
supplies the money for large enterprises, and is, therefore, a
benefactor of the human race. Where persons have no cash with
which to exploit their--well, say their inventions. Mr. Peters
takes them, and makes money out of them."

"No doubt," thought Tom, grimly.

"In other cases, where an inventor is working at a handicap, say
with too many interests, Mr. Peters takes hold of one of his
ideas, and makes it pay much better than the inventor has been
able to do."

"Now, Mr. Peters has heard of you, and he would like to do you
good."

"Yes, I guess he would," thought Tom. "He would like to do me--and
do me good and brown. Here's where I've got to play a game
myself."

"And so," went on Mr. Boylan, "Mr. Peters has sent me to you to
ask you to allow him to exploit one, or several, of your
inventions. He will form a large stock company, put one of your
inventions on the market, and make you a rich man. Now what do you
say?" and he looked at Tom and smiled--smiled, the young inventor
could not help thinking, like a cat looking at a mouse. "What do
you say, Mr. Swift?"

For a moment Tom did not answer. Then getting up and opening the
library door, to indicate that the interview was at an end, the
young inventor smiled, and said:

"Tell Mr. Peters that I thank him, but that I have nothing for him
to exploit, or with which to form a company to market."

"Wha--what!" faltered the visitor. "Do you mean to say you will
not take advantage of his remarkable offer?"

"That's just what I mean to say," replied Tom, with a smile.

"You won't do business with Mr. Peters? You won't let him do you
good?"

"No," said Tom, quietly.

"Why--why, that's the strangest--the most preposterous thing I
ever heard of!" protested Mr. Boylan. "What--what shall I say to
Mr. Peters?"

"Tell him," said Tom, "tell him, from me, and excuse the slang, if
you like, but tell him there is--nothing doing!"





CHAPTER VIII

TOM IS BAFFLED


Amazement held Mr. Boylan silent for a moment, and then, staring
at Tom, as though he could not believe what he had heard the young
inventor say, the representative of Mr. Peters exclaimed:

"Nothing doing?"

"That's what I said," repeated Tom, calmly.

"But--but you don't understand, I'm afraid."

"Oh, but indeed I do."

"Then you refuse to let my friend, Mr. Peters, exploit some of
your inventions?"

"I refuse absolutely."

"Oh, come now. Take an invention that hasn't been very
successful."

"Well, I don't like to boast," said Tom with a smile, "but all of
my inventions have been successful. They don't need any aid from
Mr. Peters, thank you."

"But this one!" went on the visitor eagerly, "this one about some
new kind of telephone," and he motioned to the drawings on the
table. "Has that been a success? Excuse me for having looked at
the plans, but I did not think you would mind. Has that telephone
been a success? If it has not perhaps Mr. Peters could form a
company to--"

"How did you know those drawings referred to a telephone?" asked
Tom, suspiciously, for the papers did not make it clear just what
the invention was.

"Why, I understood--I heard, in fact, that you were working on a
new photo telephone, and--"

"Who told you?" asked Tom quickly.

"Oh, no one in particular. The colored man who sent me here
mentioned--"

"Eradicate!" thought Tom. "He must have been talking. That isn't
like him. I must look into this."

Then to his caller he said:

"Really, you must excuse me, Mr. Boylan, but I don't care to do
any business with Mr. Peters. Tell him, with my thanks, that there
is really nothing doing in his line. I prefer to exploit my own
inventions."

"That is your last word?"

"Yes," returned Tom, as he gathered up the drawings.

"Well," said Mr. Boylan, and Tom could not help thinking there was
a veiled threat in his tones, "you will regret this. You will be
sorry for not having accepted this offer."

"I think not," replied Tom, confidently. "Good-day."

The young inventor sat for some time thinking deeply, when his
visitor had gone. He called Eradicate to him, and gently
questioned the old colored man, for Eradicate was ageing fast of
late, and Tom did not want him to feel badly.

It developed that the servant had been closely cross-questioned by
Mr. Boylan, while he was waiting for Tom, and it was small wonder
that the old colored man had let slip a reference to the photo
telephone. But he really knew nothing of the details of the
invention, so he could have given out no secrets.

"But at the same time," mused Tom, "I must be on guard against
these fellows. That Boylan seems a pretty slick sort of a chap. As
for Peters, he's a big 'bluff,' to be perfectly frank. I'm glad I
had Mr. Damon's warning in mind, or I might have been tempted to
do business with him."

"Now to get busy at this photo telephone again. I'm going to try a
totally different system of transmission. I'll use an alternating
current on the third wire, and see if that makes it any better.
And I'll put in the most sensitive selenium plate I can make. I'm
going to have this thing a success."

Tom carefully examined the drawings of his invention, at which
papers Mr. Boylan had confessed to looking. As far as the young
inventor could tell none was missing, and as they were not
completed it would be hard work for anyone not familiar with them
to have gotten any of Tom's ideas.

"But at the same time I'm going to be on my guard," mused Tom.
"And now for another trial."

Tom Swift worked hard during the following week, and so closely
did he stick to his home and workshop that he did not even pay a
visit to Mr. Damon, so he did not learn in what condition that
gentleman's affairs were. Tom even denied himself to his chum Ned,
so taken up was the young inventor with working out the telephone
problem, until Ned fairly forced himself into the shop one day,
and insisted on Tom coming out.

"You need some fresh air!" exclaimed Ned. "Come on out in the
motor boat again. She's all fixed now; isn't she?"

"Yes," answered Tom, "but--"

"Oh, 'but me no buts,' as Mr. Shakespeare would say. Come on, Tom.
It will do you good. I want a spin myself."

"All right, I will go for a little while," agreed Tom. "I am
feeling a bit rusty, and my head seems filled with cobwebs."

"Can't get the old thing to come out properly; eh?"

"No. I guess dad was more than half right when he said it couldn't
be done. But I haven't given up. Maybe I'll think of some new plan
if I take a little run. Come along."

They went down to the boat house, and soon were out on the lake in
the Kilo.

"She runs better since you had her fixed," remarked Ned.

"Yes, they did a good job."

"Did you sue Peters?"

"Didn't have to. He sent the money," and Tom told of his interview
with Mr. Boylan. This was news to Ned, as was also the financial
trouble of Mr. Damon.

"Well," said the young banker, "that bears out what I had heard of
Peters--that he was a get-rich-quick chap, and a good one to steer
clear of."

"Speaking of steering clear," laughed Tom, "there he is now, in
his big boat," and he pointed to a red blur coming up the lake.
"I'll give him a wide enough berth this time."

But though Mr. Peters, in his powerful motor boat, passed close to
Tom's more modest craft, the big man did not glance toward our
hero and his chum. Nor did Mr. Boylan, who was with his friend,
look over.

"I guess they've had enough of you," chuckled Ned.

"Probably he wishes he hadn't paid me that money," said Tom. "Very
likely he thought, after he handed it over, that I'd be only too
willing to let him manage one of my inventions. But he has another
guess coming."

Tom and Ned rode on for some distance, thoroughly enjoying the
spin on the lake that fine Summer day. They stopped for lunch at a
picnic resort, and coming back in the cool of the evening they
found themselves in the midst of a little flotilla of pleasure
craft, all decorated with Japanese lanterns.

"Better slow down a bit," Ned advised Tom, for many of the
pleasure craft were canoes and light row boats. "Our wash may
upset some of them."

"Guess you're right, old man," agreed Tom, as he closed the
gasoline throttle, to reduce speed. Hardly had he done so than
there broke in upon the merry shouts and singing of the pleasure-seekers
the staccato exhaust of a powerful motor boat, coming directly
behind Tom's craft.

Then came the shrill warning of an electrical siren horn.

"Somebody's in a hurry," observed Tom.

"Yes," answered Ned. "It sounds like Peters's boat, too."

"It is!" exclaimed Tom. "Here he comes. He ought to know better
than to cut through this raft of boats at that speed."

"Is he headed toward us?"

"No, I guess he's had enough of that. But look at him!"

With undiminished speed the burly promoter was driving his boat
on. The big vibrating horn kept up its clamor, and a powerful
searchlight in front dazzled the eyes.

"Look out! Look out!" cried several.

Many of the rowers and paddlers made haste to clear a lane for the
big, speedy motor craft, and Peters and his friends (for there
were several men in his boat now) seemed to accept this as a
matter of course, and their right.

"Somebody'll be swamped!" exclaimed Ned.

Hardly had he spoken than, as the big red boat dashed past in a
smother of foam, there came a startled cry in girls' voices.

"Look!" cried Tom. "That canoe's upset! Speed her up, Ned! We've
got to get 'em!"





CHAPTER IX

A GLEAM OF HOPE


"Where are they?"

"Who are they?"

"Over this way! There's their canoe!"

"Look out for that motor boat!"

"Who was it ran them down? They ought to be arrested!"

These were only a few of the cries that followed the upsetting of
the frail canoe by the wash from the powerful red boat. On Tom's
Kilo there was a small, electrical searchlight which he had not
yet switched on. But, with his call to Ned Newton to speed up the
motor, that had been slowed down, Tom, with one turn of his
fingers, set the lamp aglow, while, with the other hand, he
whirled the wheel over to head his craft for the spot where he saw
two figures struggling in the water.

Fortunately the lanterns on the various canoes and row-boats, as
well as the light on the bow of Tom's Kilo, made an illumination
that gave the rescuers a good chance to work. Many other boats
besides Tom's had headed for the scene, but his was the more
practical, since the others--all quite small ones--were pretty
well filled.

"There they are, Ned!" Tom suddenly cried. "Throw out the clutch!
I'll get 'em!"

"Want any help?"

"No, you stay at the engine, and mind what I say. Reverse now!
We're going to pass them!"

Ned threw in the backing gear, and the screw churned the water to
foam under the stern of the Kilo.

Tom leaned over the bow, and made a grab for the gasping,
struggling figure of a girl in the water. At the same time he had
tossed overboard a cork life ring, attached to a rope which, in
turn, was made fast to the forward deck-cleat. "Grab that!" cried
Tom. "Hold on, and I'll have you out in a second! That's enough,
Ned! Shut her off!"

The Kilo came to a standstill, and, a second later, Tom had pulled
into his boat one of the girls. She would have collapsed, and
fallen in a heap on the bottom boards, had not Ned, who had come
forward from the engine, caught her.

Then Tom, again leaning over the side, pulled in the other girl,
who was clinging to the life ring.

"You're all right," Tom assured her, as she came up, gasping,
choking and crying hysterically. "You're all right!"

"Is--is Minnie saved?" she sobbed.

"Yes, Grace! I'm here," answered the one Ned was supporting.

"Oh, wasn't it terrible!" cried the second girl Tom had saved.

"I thought we would be drowned, even though we can swim."

"Yes, it--it was so--so sudden!" gasped her companion. "What
happened?"

"The wash from that big boat upset you," explained Tom. "That
fellow ought to be ashamed of himself, rushing along the way he
did. Now, can I take you girls anywhere? Your canoe seems to have
drifted off."

"I have it!" someone called. "It's turned over, but I can tow it
to shore."

"And I'll take the girls home," offered a gentleman in a large
rowboat. "My wife will look after them. They live near us," and he
mentioned his own name and the names of the two girls Tom had
saved. The young inventor did not know them, but he introduced
himself and Ned.

"This is the annual moonlight outing of our little boat club,"
explained the man who had offered to look after the girls, "and it
is the first time we ever had an accident. This was not our fault,
though."

"Indeed it was not," agreed Tom, after he had helped the two
dripping young ladies into the rowboat. "It was due to Mr.
Peters's speed mania."

"I shall make a complaint against him to the navigation
authorities," said Mr. Ralston, who was looking after the girls.
"He must think he, alone, has any rights on this lake."

With renewed thanks to Tom and Ned, the rescued girls were rowed
off to their homes, while the interrupted water carnival was
continued.

"Some little excitement; eh, Tom?" remarked Ned, when they were
once more under way.

"Yes. We seem to run into that fellow Peters, or some of his
doings, quite often lately."

"And it isn't a good sign, either," murmured Ned.

For some minutes after that Tom did not speak. In fact he was so
silent that Ned at last inquired:

"What's the matter, Tom--in love?"

"Far from it. But, Ned, I've got an idea."

"And I've got a wet suit of clothes where that nice young lady
fainted in my arms. I'm soaked."

"That's what gave me the idea--the water, I mean. I noticed how
everything was reflected in it, and, do you know, Ned, I believe I
have been working on the wrong principle for my photo telephone."

"Wrong, Tom, how is that?"

"Why, I've been using a dry plate, and I think I should have used
a wet one. You know how even in a little puddle of water on the
sidewalk you can see yourself reflected?"

"Yes, I've often seen that."

"Well then, 'bless my watch chain!' as Mr. Damon would say, I
think I've got just what I want. I'm going to try a wet plate now,
and I think it will work. Come on now. Speed up! I'm in a great
big hurry to get home and try it!"

"Well, Tom, I sure will be glad if you've got the right idea,"
laughed Ned. "It will be worth getting wet through for, if you
strike something. Good luck!"

Tom could hardly wait to fasten up his boat for the night, so
eager was he to get to his shop laboratory and try the new idea. A
gleam of hope had come to him.

It was still early evening, and Tom, when enticed out by Ned, had
left his photo telephone apparatus in readiness to go on with his
trials as soon as he should have come back.

"Now for it, Ned!" exclaimed the young inventor, as he took off
his coat. "First I'll sensitize a selenium plate, and then I'll
wet it. Water is always a good conductor of electricity, and it's
a wonder that I forgot that when I was planning this photo
telephone. But seeing the sparkle of lights, and the reflection of
ourselves in the lake to-night, brought it back to me. Now then,
you haven't anything special to do; have you?"

"Not a thing, Tom."

"That's good. Then you get in this other telephone closet--the one
in the casting shop. I'll put a prepared plate in there, and one
in the booth where I'm to sit. Then I'll switch on the current,
and we'll see if I can make you out, and you notice whether my
image appears on your plate."

It took some little time to make ready for this new test. Tom was
filled with enthusiasm, and he was sure it was going to be
successful this time. Ned watched him prepare the selenium
plates--plates that were so sensitive to illumination that, in the
dark, the metal would hardly transmit a current of electricity, but
in the light would do so readily, its conductivity depending on the
amount of light it received.

"There, I guess we're all ready, Ned," announced Tom, at last.
"Now you go to your little coop, and I'll shut myself up in mine.
We can talk over the telephone."

Seated in the little booth in one of the smaller of Tom's shops,
Ned proceeded with his part in the new experiment. A small shelf
had been fitted up in the booth, or closet, and on this was the
apparatus, consisting of a portable telephone set, and a small
box, in which was set a selenium plate. This plate had been wet by
a spray of water in order to test Tom's new theory.

In a similar booth, several hundred feet away, and in another
building, Tom took his place. The two booths were connected by
wires, and in each one was an electric light.

"All ready, Ned?" asked Tom, through the telephone.

"All ready," came the answer.

"Now then, turn on your switch--the one I showed you--and look
right at the sensitized plate. Then turn out your light, and
slowly turn it on. It's a new kind, and the light comes up
gradually, like gas or an oil lamp. Turn it on easily."

"I get you, Tom."

Ned did as requested. Slowly the illumination in the booth
increased.

"Do you get anything, Tom?" asked Ned, over the wire.

"Not yet," was the somewhat discouraged answer. "Go ahead, turn on
more light, and keep your face close to the plate."

Ned did so.

"How about it now?" he asked, a moment later.

"Nothing--yet," was the answer. And then suddenly Tom's voice rose
to a scream over the wire.

"Ned--Ned! Quick!" he called. "Come here--I--I--"

The voice died off into a meaningless gurgle.





CHAPTER X

MIDNIGHT VISITORS


Ned Newton never knew exactly how he got out of the telephone
booth. He seemed to give but one jump, tearing the clamped
receiver from his ear, and almost upsetting the photo apparatus in
his mad rush to help Tom. Certain it is, however, that he did get
out, and a few seconds later he was speeding toward the shop where
Tom had taken his position in a booth.

Ned burst in, crying out:

"Tom! What is it? What happened? What's the matter?"

There was no answer. Fearing the worst, Ned hurried to the small
booth, in one corner of the big, dimly lighted shop. He could see
Tom's lamp burning in the telephone compartment.

"Tom! Tom!" called the young banker.

Still there was no answer, and Ned, springing forward, threw open
the double, sound-proof door of the booth. Then he saw Tom lying
unconscious, with his head and arms on the table in front of him,
while the low buzzing of the electrical apparatus in the
transmitting box told that the current had not been shut off.

"Tom! Tom!" cried Ned in his chum's ear. He shook him by the
shoulder.

"Are you hurt? What is the matter?"

The young inventor seemed unconscious, and for a moment Ned had a
wild idea that Tom had been shocked to death, possibly by some
crossed live wire coming in contact with the telephone circuit.

"But that couldn't have happened, or I'd have been shocked
myself," mused Ned.

Then he became aware of a curious, sweet, sickish odor in the
booth. It was overpowering. Ned felt himself growing dizzy.

"I have it--chloroform!" he gasped. "In some way Tom has been
overcome by chloroform. I've got to get him to the fresh air."

Once he had solved the puzzle of Tom's unconsciousness, Ned was
quick to act. He caught Tom under the arms, and dragged him out of
the booth, and to the outer door of the shop. Almost before Ned
had reached there with his limp burden, Tom began to revive, and
soon the fresh, cool night air completed the work.

"I--I," began the young inventor. "Ned, I--I--"

"Now take it easy, Tom," advised his chum. "You'll be all right in
a few minutes. What happened? Shall I call your father, or Koku?"

"No--don't. It would only--only alarm dad," faltered Tom. "I'm
getting all right now. But he--he nearly had me, Ned!"

"He had you? What do you mean, Tom? Who had you?"

"I don't know who it was, but when I was talking to you over the
wire, all of a sudden I felt a hand behind me. It slipped over my
mouth and nose, and I smelled chloroform. I knew right away
something was wrong, and I called to you. That's all I remember. I
guess I must have gone off."

"You did," spoke Ned. "You were unconscious when I got to you. I
couldn't imagine what had happened. First I thought it was an
electrical shock. Then I smelled that chloroform. But who could it
have been, Tom?"

"Give it up, Ned! I haven't the slightest idea."

"Could they have been going to rob you?"

"I haven't a thing but a nickel watch on me," went on Tom. "I left
all my cash in the house. If it was robbery, it wasn't me,
personally, they were after."

"What then? Some of your inventions?"

"That's my idea now, Ned. You remember some years ago Jake Burke
and his gang held me up and took one of dad's patents away from
me?"

"Yes, I've heard you mention that. It was when you first got your
motor cycle; wasn't it?"

"That's right. Well, what I was going to say was that they used
chloroform on me then, and--"

"You think this is the same crowd? Why, I thought they were
captured."

"No, they got away, but I haven't heard anything of them in years.
Now it may be they have come back for revenge, for you know we got
back the stolen property."

"That's right. Say, Tom, it might be so. What are you going to do
about it?"

"I hardly know. If it was Jake Burke, alias Happy Harry, and his
crowd, including Appleson, Morse and Featherton, they're a bad
lot. I wouldn't want father to know they were around, for he'd be
sure to worry himself sick. He never really got over the time they
attacked me, and got the patent away. Dad sure thought he was
ruined then."

"Now if I tell him I was chloroformed again to-night, and that I
think it was Burke and his crowd, he'd be sure to get ill over it.
So I'm just going to keep mum."

"Well, perhaps it's the best plan. But you ought to do something."

"Oh, I will, Ned, don't worry about that. I feel much better now."

"How did it happen?" asked Ned, his curiosity not yet satisfied.

"I don't know, exactly. I was in the booth, talking to you, and
not paying much attention to anything else. I was adjusting and
readjusting the current, trying to get that image to appear on the
plate. All at once, I felt someone back of me, and, before I could
turn, that hand, with the chloroform sponge, was over my mouth and
nose. I struggled, and called out, but it wasn't much use."

"But they didn't do anything else--they didn't take anything; did
they, Tom?"

"I don't know, Ned. We'll have to look around. They must have
sneaked into the shop. I left the door open, you see. It would
have been easy enough."

"How many were there?"

"I couldn't tell. I only felt one fellow at me; but he may have
had others with him."

"What particular invention were they after, Tom?"

"I'm sure I don't know. There are several models in here that
would be valuable. I know one thing, though, they couldn't have
been after my photo telephone," and Tom laughed grimly.

"Why not?" Ned wanted to know.

"Because it's a failure--that's what! It's a dead, sure failure,
Ned, and I'm going to give it up!" and Tom spoke bitterly.

"Oh, don't say that!" urged his chum. "You may be right on the
verge of perfecting it, Tom. Didn't you see any image at all on
the plate?"

"Not a shadow. I must be on the wrong track. Well, never mind
about that now. I'm going to look around, and see if those fellows
took anything."

Tom was feeling more like himself again, the effects of the
chloroform having passed away. He had breathed the fumes of it for
only a little while, so no harm had been done. He and Ned made an
examination of the shop, but found nothing missing.

There were no traces of the intruders, however, though the two
chums looked carefully about outside the building.

"You were too quick for them, Ned," said Tom. "You came as soon as
I called. They heard me speaking, and must have known that I had
given the alarm."

"Yes, I didn't lose any time," admitted Ned, "but I didn't see a
sign of anyone as I ran up."

"They must have been pretty quick at getting away. Well, now to
decide what's best to do to-night."

After some consultation and consideration it was decided to set
the burglar alarms in every building of the Swift plant. Some time
previous, when he had been working on a number of valuable
inventions, unscrupulous men had tried to steal his ideas and
models. To prevent this Tom had arranged a system of burglar
alarms, and had also fitted up a wizard camera that would take
moving pictures of anyone coming within its focus. The camera
could be set to work at night, in connection with the burglar
alarms.

The apparatus was effective, and thus an end was put to the
efforts of the criminals. But now it seemed Tom would have to take
new precautionary measures. His camera, however, was not
available, as he had loaned it to a scientific society for
exhibition.

"But we'll attach the burglar wires," decided Tom, "and see what
happens."

"It might be a good plan to have Koku on guard," said Tom's chum.
"That giant could handle four or five of the chaps as easily as
you and I could tackle one."

"That's right," agreed Tom. "I'll put him on guard. Whew! That
chloroform is giving me a headache. Guess I'll go to bed. I wish
you'd stay over to-night, Ned, if you haven't anything else to do.
I may need you."

"Then of course I'll stay, Tom. I'll telephone home that I won't
be in."

A little later Tom had put away his new photo telephone apparatus,
and had prepared for the warm reception of any unbidden callers.

"I wish I hadn't started on this new invention," said Tom, half
bitterly, as he locked up the main parts of his machine, "I know
it will never work."

"Oh, yes it will," spoke Ned, cheerfully. "You never failed yet,
Tom Swift, in anything you undertook, and you're not going to
now."

"Well, that's good of you to say, Ned, but I think you're wrong
this time. But I'm not going to think any more about it to-night,
anyhow. Now to find Koku and put him on watch."

The giant listened carefully to Tom's simple instructions.

"If any bad men come in the night, Koku," said the young inventor,
"you catch them!"

"Yes, master, me catch!" said Koku, grimly. "Me catch!" and he
stretched out his powerful arms, and clenched his big hands in a
way that boded no good to evildoers.

Nothing was said to Mr. Swift, to Mrs. Baggert, or to Eradicate
about what had happened, for Tom did not want to worry them. The
burglar alarms were set, Koku took his place where he could watch
the signals, and at the same time be ready to rush out, for,
somehow, Tom had an idea that the men who had attacked him would
come back.

Tom and Ned occupied adjoining rooms, and soon were ready for bed.
But, somehow, Tom could not sleep. He lay awake, tossing from side
to side, and, in spite of his resolution not to think about his
photo telephone invention, his mind ran on nothing but that.

"I can't see what next to do to make it work," he told himself,
over and over again. "Something is wrong--but what?"

At length he fell into a fitful doze, and he had a wild dream that
he was sliding down hill on a big mirror in which all sorts of
reflections were seen--reflections that he could not get to show
in the selenium plates.

Then Tom felt the mirror bobbing up and down like a motor boat in
a storm. He felt the vibration, and he heard a voice calling in
his ear:

"Get up, Tom! Get up!"

"Yes! What is it?" he sleepily exclaimed,

"Hush!" was the caution he heard, and then he realized that his
dream had been caused by Ned shaking him.

"Well?" whispered Tom, in tense tones.

"Midnight visitors!" answered his chum "The burglar alarm has just
gone off! The airship hangar drop fell. Koku has gone out. Come
on!"





CHAPTER XI

THE AIRSHIP IS TAKEN


Tom leaped silently out of bed, and stood for a moment half
dazed, so soundly had he been sleeping.

"Come on!" urged Ned softly, realizing that his chum had not fully
comprehended. "Koku will hold them until we get there. I haven't
roused anyone else."

"That's right," whispered Tom, as he began putting on his clothes.
"I don't want father to know. When did it happen?"

"Just a little while ago. I couldn't sleep very well, but I fell
into a doze, and then I heard the buzzer of the alarm go off. I
saw that the drop, showing that the hangar had been entered, had
fallen. I got to the window in time to see Koku going toward the
shed from his little coop. Then I came to you."

"Glad you did," answered Tom. "I didn't think I was sleeping so
soundly."

Together the two chums made their way from their rooms down the
dimly-lighted hall to a side door, whence they could reach the
airship hangar, or shed.

"Won't we need something--a gun or--" began Ned.

"Clubs are better--especially at night when you can't see to aim
very well," whispered back Tom. "I've got a couple of good ones
downstairs. I could use my electric rifle, and set it merely to
disable temporarily whoever the charge hit, but it's a little too
risky. Koku has a habit of getting in the way at the most
unexpected times. He's so big, you know. I think clubs will be
best."

"All right, Tom, just as you say," agreed Ned. "But who do you
think it can be?"

"I haven't the least idea. Probably the same fellows who were
after me before, though. This time I'll find out what their game
is, and what they're after."

The chums reached the lower hall, and there Tom picked out two
African war clubs which he had brought back with him from one of
his many trips into wild lands.

"These are just the thing!" exclaimed Ned, swinging his about.

"Careful," cautioned Tom, "If you hit something you'll rouse the
house, and I don't want my father and Mrs. Baggert, to say nothing
of Eradicate, awakened."

"Excuse me," murmured Ned. "But we'd better be getting a move on."

"That's right," agreed Tom. He dropped into a side pocket a small
but powerful electric flash lamp, and then he and Ned let
themselves out.

There had been a bright moon, but it was now overcast by clouds.
However, there was sufficient light to enable the two lads to see
objects quite clearly. All about them were the various buildings
that made up the manufacturing and experimental plant of Tom Swift
and his father. Farthest away from the house was the big shed
where once Tom had kept a balloon, but which was now given over to
his several airships. In front of it was a big, level grassy
space, needed to enable the aircraft to get a "running start"
before they could mount into the clouds.

"See anything of Koku?" whispered Ned.

"No," answered Tom, in the same cautious voice. "I guess he must
be hiding--"

"There he goes now!" hissed Ned, pointing to a big figure that was
approaching the hangar. It was undoubtedly that of the giant, and
he could be seen, in the dim light, stalking cautiously along.

"I wonder where the uninvited guests are?" asked Tom.

"Probably in the airship shed," answered Ned. "Koku was after them
as soon as the alarm went off, and they couldn't have gotten away.
They must be inside there yet. But what can their game be?"

"It's hard to say," admitted Tom. "They may be trying to get
something belonging to me, or they may imagine they can pick up
some valuable secrets. Or they may--" He stopped suddenly, and
then exclaimed:

"Come on, Ned! They're after one of the airships! That's it! My
big biplane is all ready to start, and they can get it in motion
inside of a few seconds. Oh, why didn't I hurry?" he added,
bitterly.

But the hangar was still some distance away, and it would take two
or three minutes of running to reach it.

Meanwhile, and at the instant Tom had his thought of the possible
theft of his biggest aircraft, something happened.

The doors of the shed were suddenly thrown open, and the two boys
could see the large airship being wheeled out. The hazy light of
the moon behind the clouds shone on the expanse of white planes,
and on the fish-tail rudder, one of Tom's latest ideas.

"Hey, there!" cried Tom, warningly.

"Leave that alone!" yelled Ned.

"Koku! Koku!" shouted Tom, shrilly. "Get after those fellows!"

"Me get!" boomed out the giant, in his deep voice.

He had been standing near the entrance to the hangar, probably
waiting for developments, and watching for the arrival of Tom and
Ned. The big form was seen to leap forward, and then several dark
shadows swarmed from around the airship, and were seen to fling
themselves upon the giant.

"That's a fight!" cried Ned. "They're attacking him!"

"Koku can take care of himself!" murmured Tom. "But come on. I
don't see what their game is."

He understood a moment later, however, for while several of the
midnight visitors were engaged in a hand-to-hand tussle with the
giant there came a sharp, throbbing roar of the airship motor in
motion. The propellers were being whirled rapidly about.

"Koku! Koku!" cried Tom, for he was still some distance off.
"Never mind them! Don't let the airship be taken!"

But Koku could only grunt. Big and strong as he was, half a dozen
men attacking him at once hampered him. He threw them from him,
one after another, and was gradually making his way toward the now
slowly-moving airship. But would he be in time?

Tom and Ned could not hope to reach the machine before Koku,
though they were running at top speed.

"Koku! Koku!" yelled Tom. "Don't let them get away!"

But Koku could only grunt--harder this time--for he fell heavily,
being tripped by a stick thrust between his legs. He lay for a
moment stunned.

"They're going to get away!" panted Tom, making an effort to
increase his speed.

"That's what!" agreed Ned.

Even as they spoke the roar of the airship motor increased.
Several of the dark forms which had been engaged in the struggle
with Koku were seen to pick themselves up, and run toward the
airship, that was now in motion, moving on the bicycle wheels over
the grass plot, preparatory to mounting upward in the sky.

"Stop! Stop!" commanded Tom. But it was all in vain.

The men leaped aboard the airship, which could carry six persons,
and a moment later, with a deafening roar, as the engine opened up
full, the big craft shot upward, taking away all but two of the
midnight visitors. These, who had seemingly been stunned by Koku,
now arose from the ground, and staggered off in the darkness.

"Get them!" cried Tom.

"We must see to Koku!" added Ned, "Look, there goes your airship,
Tom!"

"Yes, I know. But we can't stop that now. Let's see if we can get
a clue in these fellows!"

He pointed toward the two who had run off in the dark underbrush
surrounding the hangar plaza, and he and Ned trailed them as well
as they could. But from the first they knew it would be useless,
for there were many hiding places, and, a little way beyond, was a
clump of trees.

After a short search Tom gave up reluctantly, and came back to
where Koku was now sitting on the ground.

"Are you hurt?" he asked of the giant.

"My mind hurt--that all," said the big man.

"I guess he means his feelings are hurt," Tom explained. "Do you
know who they were, Koku?"

"No, master."

"But we must do something!" cried Ned. "They've got your airship,
Tom."

"I know it," said the young inventor, calmly. "But we can't do
anything now. You can hardly hear her, let alone see her. She's
moving fast!"

He pointed upward to the darkness. Like some black bird of prey
the airship was already lost to sight, though it would have seemed
as if her white planes might render her visible. But she had moved
so swiftly that, during the short search, she had already
disappeared.

"Aren't you going to do anything?" asked Ned.

"Certainly," spoke Tom. "I'm going to telephone an alarm to all
the nearby towns. This is certainly a queer game, Ned."





CHAPTER XII

A STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE


Disappointed and puzzled, Tom and Ned went to where Koku was
standing in rather a dazed attitude. The giant, like all large
bodies, moved slowly, not only bodily but mentally. He could
understand exactly what had happened, except that he had not
prevailed over the "pygmies" who had attacked him. They had been
too many for him.

"Let's take a look inside," suggested Tom, when, by another glance
upward, he had made sure that all trace of his big airship was
gone. "Maybe we can get a clue. Then, Koku, you tell us what
happened."

"It all happened to me," said the giant, simply. "Me no make
anything happen to them."

"That's about right," laughed Tom, ruefully. "It all happened to
us."

The lights in the hangar were switched on, but a careful search
revealed little. The men, half a dozen or more, had come evidently
well prepared for the taking away of Tom Swift's airship, and they
had done so.

Entrance had been effected by forcing a small side door. True, the
burglar alarm had given notice of the presence of the men, but Tom
and Ned had not acted quite quickly enough. Koku had been at the
hangar almost as soon as the men themselves, but he had watched
and waited for orders, instead of going in at once, and this had
given the intruders time to wheel out the craft and start the
motor.

"Why didn't you jump right in on them when you saw what they were
up to, Koku?" asked Tom.

"Me wait for master. Me think master want to see who men were. Me
go in--they run."

"Well, of course that's so, in a way," admitted Tom. "They
probably would have run, but they'd have run WITHOUT my airship
instead of WITH it, if they hadn't had time to get it outside the
hangar. However, there's no use in crying over lost biplanes. The
next thing is how to get her back. Did you know any of the men,
Koku?"

"No, master."

"Then we haven't any clue that way. They laid their plans well.
They just let you tangle yourself up with them, Koku, while the
head ones got the motor going; an easy matter, since it was all
ready to start. Then they tripped you, Koku, and as many of them
as could, made a jump for the machine. Then they were off."

"Well, what's the next thing to do?" asked Ned, when another look
about the shed had shown that not the slightest clue was
available.

"I'm going to do some telephoning," Tom stated. "A big airship
like mine can't go scooting around the country without being
noticed. And those fellows can't go on forever. They've got to
have gasoline and oil, and to get them they'll have to come down.
I'll get it back, sooner or later; but the question is: Why did
they take her?"

"To sell," suggested Ned.

"I think not," Tom said. "A big airship like mine isn't easy to
sell. People who would buy it would ask questions that might not
easily be answered. I'm inclined to think that some other reason
made them take her, and it's up to us to find out what it was.
Let's go into the house."

"Hark!" suddenly exclaimed Ned, holding up his hand for silence.
They all heard footsteps outside the hangar.

Tom sprang to the door, flashing his electric light, and a voice
exclaimed:

"Golly! Chicken thieves!"

"Oh, is it you, Eradicate?" asked the young inventor, with a
laugh. "No, it isn't chicken thieves--they were after bigger game
this time."

"Suffin happen?" asked the colored man. "Massa Swift he heah a
noise, an' see a light, an' he sent me out yeah t' see what all am
gwine on."

"Yes, something happened," admitted Tom. "They got the Eagle,
Rad."

"What! Yo' big airship?"

"Yes."

"Huh! Dat's too bad, Massa Tom. I suah am sorry t' heah dat. Who
done it?"

"We don't know, Rad."

"Maybe it was dat low-down cousin ob mine what tried t' git mah
chickens, onct!"

"No, Rad, it wasn't your cousin. But I'll telephone the alarm to
the police. They may be able to help me get the Eagle back."

Within the next hour several messages were sent to the authorities
of nearby towns, asking them to be on the watch for the stolen
airship. This was about all that could be done, and after Mr.
Swift had been told the story of the night's happenings, everyone
went back to bed again.

Further search the next morning brought forth no clues, though
Tom, Ned and the others beat about in the bushes where the men had
disappeared.

One or two reports were heard from surrounding towns, to the
effect that several persons had heard a strange throbbing sound in
the night, that, possibly, was caused by the passage of the
airship overhead. One such report came from Waterford, the home
town of Mr. Damon.

"Let's go over there," suggested Ned, to his chum. "I'd like to
see our friend, and maybe we can get some other clues by
circulating around there."

"Oh, I don't know," spoke Tom, rather listlessly.

"Why not?" Ned wanted to know.

"Well, I ought to be working on my photo telephone," was the
answer. "I've got a new idea now. I'm going to try a different
kind of current, and use a more sensitive plate. And I'll use a
tungsten filament lamp in the sending booth."

"Oh, let your experiments go for a little while, Tom," suggested
Ned. "Come on over to Mr. Damon's. The trouble with you is that
you keep too long at a thing, once you start."

"That's the only way to succeed," remarked Tom. "Really, Ned,
while I feel sorry about the airship, of course, I ought to be
working on my telephone. I'll get the Eagle back sooner or later."

"That's not the way to talk, Tom. Let's follow up this clue."

"Well, if you insist on it I suppose I may as well go. We'll take
the little monoplane. I've fixed her up to carry double. I guess--"

Tom Swift broke off suddenly, as the telephone at his elbow rang.

"Hello," he said, taking off the receiver. "Yes, this is Tom
Swift. Oh, good morning, Mrs. Damon! Eh! What's that? Mr. Damon
has disappeared? You don't tell me! Disappeared! Yes, yes, I can
come right over. Be there in a few minutes. Eh? You don't know
what to make of it? Oh, well, maybe it can easily be explained.
Yes, Ned Newton and I will be right over. Don't worry."

Tom hung up the receiver and turned to his chum.

"What do you think of that?" he asked.

"What is it?"

"Why, Mr. Damon mysteriously vanished last night, and this morning
word came from his bankers that every cent of his fortune had
disappeared! He's lost everything!"

"Maybe--maybe--" hesitated Ned.

"No, Mr. Damon isn't that kind of a man," said Tom, stoutly. "He
hasn't made away with himself."

"But something is wrong!"

"Evidently, and it's up to us to find out what it is. I shouldn't
be surprised but that he knew of this coming trouble and started
out to prevent it if he could."

"But he wouldn't disappear and make his wife worry."

"No, that's so. Well, we'll have to go over there and find out all
about it."

"Say, Tom!" exclaimed Ned, as they were getting the small, but
swift monoplane ready for the flight, "could there be any
connection with the disappearance of Mr. Damon and the taking of
the Eagle?"

Tom started in surprise.

"How could there be?" he asked.

"Oh, I don't know," answered Ned. "It was only an idea."

"Well, we'll see what Mrs. Damon has to say," spoke the young
inventor, as he took his seat beside Ned, and motioned to Koku to
twirl the propeller.





CHAPTER XIII

THE TELEPHONE PICTURE


"Oh, Tom Swift! I'm so glad to see you!"

Mrs. Damon clasped her arms, in motherly fashion, about the young
inventor. He held her close, and his own eyes were not free from
tears as he witnessed the grief of his best friend's wife.

"Now, don't worry, Mrs. Damon," said Tom, sympathetically.
"Everything will be all right," and he led her to a chair.

"All right, Tom! How can it be?" and the lady raised a tear-stained
face. "My husband has disappeared, without a word! It's just as
if the earth had opened and swallowed him up! I can't find a trace
of him! How can it be all right?"

"Well, we'll find him, Mrs. Damon. Don't worry. Ned and I will get
right to work, and I'll have all the police and detectives within
fifty miles on the search--if we have to go that far."

"Oh, it's awfully good of you, Tom. I--I didn't know who else to
turn to in my trouble but you."

"And why shouldn't you come to me? I'd do anything for you and Mr.
Damon. Now tell me all about it."

Tom and Ned had just arrived at the Damon home in the airship, to
find the wife of the eccentric man almost distracted over her
husband's strange disappearance.

"It happened last night," Mrs. Damon said, when she was somewhat
composed. "Last night about twelve o'clock."

"Twelve o'clock!" cried Tom, in surprise "Why that's about the
time--"

He stopped suddenly.

"What were you going to say?" asked Mrs. Damon.

"Oh--nothing," answered Tom. "I--I'll tell you later. Go on,
please."

"It is all so confusing," proceeded Mrs. Damon. "You know my
husband has been in trouble of late--financial trouble?"

"Yes," responded Tom, "he mentioned it to me."

"I don't know any of the details," sighed Mrs. Damon, "but I know
he was mixed up with a man named Peters."

"I know him, too," spoke Tom, grimly.

"My husband has been very gloomy of late," went on Mrs. Damon. "He
foolishly entrusted almost his entire fortune to that man, and
last night he told me it was probably all gone. He said he saw
only the barest chance to save it, but that he was going to take
that chance."

"Did he go into details?" asked Tom.

"No, that was all he said. That was about ten o'clock. He didn't
want to go to bed. He just sat about, and he kept saying over and
over again: 'Bless my tombstone!' 'Bless the cemetery!' and all
such stuff as that. You know how he was," and she smiled through
her tears.

"Yes," said Tom. "I know. Only it wasn't like him to bless such
grewsome things. He was more jolly."

"He hasn't been, of late," sighed his wife. "Well, he sat about
all the evening, and he kept figuring away, trying, I suppose, to
find some way out of his trouble."

"Why didn't he come to my father?" cried Tom. "I told him he could
have all the money he needed to tide him over."

"Well, Mr. Damon was queer that way," said his wife. "He wanted to
be independent. I urged him to call you up, but he said he'd fight
it out alone."

"As I said, we sat there, and he kept feeling more and more blue,
and blessing his funeral, and the hearse and all such things as
that. He kept looking at the clock, too, and I wondered at that."

"'Are you expecting someone?' I asked him. He said he wasn't,
exactly, but I made sure he was, and finally, about half-past
eleven, he put on his hat and went out."

"'Where are you going?' I asked him."

"'Oh, just to get a breath of air. I can't sleep,' he said. I
didn't think much of that, as he often used to go out and walk
about a bit before going to bed. So he went out, and I began to
see about locking up, for I never trust the servants."

"It must have been about an hour later when I heard voices out in
front. I looked, and I saw Mr. Damon talking to a man."

"Who was he?" asked Tom, eagerly, on the alert for the slightest
clue.

"I thought at the time," said Mrs. Damon, "that it was one of the
neighbors. I have learned since, however, that it was not. Anyhow,
this man and Mr. Damon stood talking for a little while, and then
they went off together. I didn't think it strange at the time,
supposing he was merely strolling up and down in front with Mr.
Blackson, who lives next door, He often had done that before."

"Well, I saw that the house was locked up, and then I sat down in
a chair to wait for Mr. Damon to come back. I was getting sleepy,
for we don't usually stay up so late. I suppose I must have dozed
off, but I was suddenly awakened by hearing a peculiar noise. I
sat up in alarm, and then I realized that Mr. Damon had not come
in."

"I was frightened then, and I called my maid. It was nearly one
o'clock, and my husband never stays out as late as that. We went
next door, and found that Mr. Blackson had not been out of his
house that evening. So it could not have been he to whom Mr. Damon
was speaking."

"We roused up other neighbors, and they searched all about the
grounds, thinking he might have been overcome by a sudden faint.
But we could not find him. My husband had disappeared--mysteriously
disappeared!" and the lady broke into sobs.

"Now don't worry," said Tom, soothingly, as he put his arms about
her as he would have done to his own mother, had she been alive,
"We'll get him back!"

"But how can you? No one knows where he is."

"Oh, yes!" said Tom, confidently, "Mr. Damon himself knows where
he is, and unless he has gone away voluntarily, I think you will
soon hear from him."

"What do you mean by--voluntarily?" asked the wife.

"First let me ask you a question," came from Tom. "You said you
were awakened by a peculiar noise. What sort of a sound was it?"

"Why, a whirring, throbbing noise, like--like--"

She paused for a comparison.

"Like an airship?" asked Tom, with a good deal of eagerness.

"That was it!" cried Mrs. Damon. "I was trying to think where I
had heard the sound before. It was just like the noise your
airship makes, Tom!"

"That settles it!" exclaimed the young inventor.

"Settles what?" asked Ned.

"The manner of Mr. Damon's disappearance. He was taken away--or
went away--in my airship--the airship that was stolen from my shed
last night!"

Mrs. Damon stared at Tom in amazement.

"Why--why--how could that be?" she asked.

Quickly Tom told of what had happened at his place.

"I begin to see through it," he said. "There is some plot here,
and we've got to get to the bottom of it. Mr. Damon either went
with these men in the airship willingly, or he was taken away by
force. I'm inclined to think he went of his own accord, or you
would have heard some outcry, Mrs. Damon."

"Well, perhaps so," she admitted. "But would he go away in that
manner without telling me?"

"He might," said Tom, willing to test his theory on all sides. "He
might not have wanted you to worry, for you know you dislike him
to go up an airships."

"Yes, I do. Oh, if I only thought he did go away of his own
accord, I could understand it. He went, if he did, to try and save
his fortune."

"It does look as though he had an appointment with someone, Tom,"
suggested Ned. "His looking at the clock, and then going out, and all
that."

"Yes," admitted the young inventor, "and now I'm inclined to
change my theory a bit. It may have been some other airship than
mine that was used."

"How so?" asked Ned.

"Because the men who took mine were unprincipled fellows. Mr.
Damon would not have gone away with men who would steal an
airship."

"Not if he knew it," admitted Ned. "Well, then, let's consider two
airships--yours and the other that came to keep the appointment
with Mr. Damon. If the last is true, why should he want to go away
in an airship at midnight? Why couldn't he take a train, or an
auto?"

"Well, we don't know all the ins and outs," admitted Tom. "Taking
a midnight airship ride is rather strange, but that may have been
the only course open. We'll have to let the explanation go until
later. At any rate, Mrs. Damon, I feel sure that your husband did
go off through the air--either in my Eagle or in some other
craft."

"Well, I'm glad to hear you say so, Tom Swift, though it sounds a
dreadful thing to say. But if he did go off of his own accord, I
know he did it for the best. And he may not have told me, for fear
I would worry. I can understand that. But why isn't he back now?"

Tom had been rather dreading that question. It was one he had
asked himself, and he had found no good answer for it. If there
had been such need of haste, that an airship had to be used, why
had not Mr. Damon come back ere this? Unless, as Tom feared to
admit, even to himself, there had been some accident.

Half a dozen theories flashed through his mind, but he could not
select a good, working one,--particularly as there were no clues.
Disappearing in an airship was the one best means of not leaving a
trace behind. An auto, a motor boat, a train, a horse and
carriage--all these could be more or less easily traced. But an
airship--

If Mr. Damon wanted to cover up his tracks, or if he had been
taken away, and his captors wanted to baffle pursuit, the best
means had been adopted.

"Now don't you worry," advised Tom to Mrs. Damon. "I know it looks
funny, but I think it will come out all right. Ned and I will do
all we can. Mr. Damon must have known what he was about. But, to
be on the safe side, we'll send out a general alarm through the
police."

"Oh, I don't know what I'd done if you hadn't come to help me!"
exclaimed Mrs. Damon.

"Just you leave it to me!" said the young inventor, cheerfully.
"I'll find Mr. Damon!"

But, though he spoke thus confidently, Tom Swift had not the
slightest notion, just then, of how to set about his difficult
task. He had had hard problems to solve before, so he was not
going to give up this one. First he wanted to think matters out,
and arrange a plan of action.

He and Ned made a careful examination of the grounds of the Damon
homestead. There was little they could learn, though they did find
where an airship had landed in a meadow, not far away, and where
it had made a flying start off again.

Carefully Tom looked at the marks made by the wheels of the
airship.

"They're the same distance apart as those on the Eagle," he said
to his chum, "and the tires are the same. But that isn't saying
anything, as lots of airships have the same equipment. So we won't
jump to any conclusions that way."

Tom and Ned interviewed several of the neighbors, but beyond
learning that some of them had heard the throbbing of the midnight
airship, that was as far as they got on that line.

There was nothing more they could do in Waterford, and, leaving
Mrs. Damon, who had summoned a relative to stay with her, the two
chums made a quick trip back through the air to Shopton. As
Eradicate came out to help put away the monoplane Tom noticed that
the colored man was holding one hand as though it hurt him.

"What's the matter, Rad?" asked the young investor.

"Oh, nuffin--jest natcherly nuffin, Massa Tom."

But Eradicate spoke evasively and in a manner that roused Tom's
suspicions.

"Boomerang, your mule, didn't kick you; did he?"

"No, sah, Massa Tom, no sah. 'Twern't nuffin laik dat."

"But what was it? Your hand is hurt!"

"Well, Massa Tom, I s'pose I done bettah tell yo' all. I'se had a
shock!"

"A shock?"

"Yas, sah. A shock. A lickrish shock."

"Oh, you mean an electrical shock. That's too bad. I suppose you
must have touched a live wire."

"No, sah. 'Twern't dat way."

"How was it, then?"

"Well, yo' see, Massa Tom, I were playin' a joke on Koku."

"Oh, you were; eh? Then I suppose Koku shocked you," laughed Tom.

"No, sah. I--I'll tell you. Dat giant man he were in de telefoam
boof in de pattern shop--you know--de one where yo' all been
tryin' to make pishures."

"Yes, I know. Go on!" exclaimed Tom, impatiently.

"Well, he were in dere, Massa Tom, an' I slipped into de boof in
de next shop--de odder place where yo' all been 'speermentin'. I
called out on de telefoam, loud laik de Angel Gabriel gwine t'
holler at de last trump: 'Look out, yo' ole sinnah!' I yell it
jest t' scare Koku."

"I see," said Tom, a bit severely, for he did not like Eradicate
interfering with the instruments. "And did you scare Koku?"

"Oh, yas, sah, Massa Tom. I skeered him all right; but suffin else
done happen. When I put down de telefoam I got a terrible shock.
It hurts yit!"

"Well," remarked Tom, "I suppose I ought to feel sorry for you,
but I can't. You should let things alone. Now I've got to see if
you did any damage. Come along, Ned."

Tom was the first to enter the telephone booth where Eradicate had
played the part of the Angel Gabriel. He looked at the wires and
apparatus, but could see nothing wrong.

Then he glanced at the selenium plate, on which he hoped, some
day, to imprint an image from over the wire. And, as he saw the
smooth surface he started, and cried.

"Ned! Ned, come here quick!"

"What is it?" asked his chum, crowding into the booth.

"Look at that plate! Tell me what you see!"

Ned looked.

"Why--why it's Koku's picture!" he gasped.

"Exactly!" cried Tom. "In some way my experiment has succeeded
when I was away. Eradicate must have made some new connection by
his monkeying. Ned, it's a success! I've got my first photo
telephone picture! Hurray!"





CHAPTER XIV

MAKING IMPROVEMENTS


Tom Swift was so overjoyed and excited that for a few moments he
capered about, inside the booth, and outside, knocking against his
chum Ned, clapping him on the back, and doing all manner of boyish
"stunts."

"It's a success, Ned! I've struck it!" cried Tom, in delight.

"Ouch! You struck ME, you mean!" replied Ned, rubbing his
shoulder, where the young inventor had imparted a resounding blow
of joy.

"What of it?" exclaimed Tom. "My apparatus works! I can send a
picture by telephone! It's great, Ned!"

"But I don't exactly understand how it happened," said Ned, in
some bewilderment, as he gazed at the selenium plate.

"Neither do I," admitted Tom, when he had somewhat calmed down.
"That is, I don't exactly understand what made the thing succeed
now, when it wouldn't work for me a little while ago. But I've got
to go into that. I'll have to interview that rascal Eradicate, and
learn what he did when he played that trick on Koku. Yes, and I'll
have to see Koku, too. We've got to get at the bottom of this,
Ned."

"I suppose so. You've got your hands full, Tom, with your photo
telephone, and the disappearance of Mr. Damon."

"Yes, and my own airship, too. I must get after that. Whew! A lot
of things to do! But I like work, Ned. The more the better."

"Yes, that's like you, Tom. But what are you going to get at
first?"

"Let me see; the telephone, I think. I'll have Rad and Koku in
here and talk to them. I say, you Eradicate!" he called out of the
door of the shop, as he saw the colored man going past, holding
his shocked arm tenderly.

"Yas, sah, Massa Tom, I'se comin'! What is it yo' all wants, Massa
Tom?"

"I want you to show me exactly what you did to the wires, and
other things in here, when you played that Angel Gabriel trick on
your partner Koku."

"Partner! He ain't mah partner!" exclaimed Eradicate with a scowl,
for there was not the best of feeling between the two. Eradicate
had served in the Swift family many years, and he rather resented
the coming of the giant, who performed many services formerly the
province of the colored man.

"Well, never mind what he is, Rad," laughed Tom. "You just show me
what you did. Come now, something happened in here, and I want to
find out what it was."

"Oh, suffin done happened all right, Massa Tom. Yas, sah! Suffin
done happened!" cried Eradicate, with such odd emphasis that Tom
and Ned both laughed.

"An' suffin happened to me," went on the colored man, rubbing his
shocked arm.

"Well, tell us about it," suggested Tom.

"It was dish yeah way," proceeded Eradicate. And he told more in
detail how, seeing Koku cleaning and sweeping out the other
telephone booth, he had thought of the trick to play on him. Both
telephones had what are called "amplifiers" attached, that could
be switched on when needed. These amplifiers were somewhat like
the horn of a phonograph--they increased, or magnified the sound,
so that one could hear a voice from any part of the shop, and need
not necessarily have the telephone receiver at his ear.

Seeing Koku near the instrument, Eradicate had switched on the
amplifier, and had called into his instrument, trying to scare the
giant. And he did startle Koku, for the loud voice, coming so
suddenly, sent the giant out of the booth on the run.

"But you must have done something else," insisted Tom. "Look here,
Rad," and the young inventor pointed to the picture on the plate.

"Mah gracious sakes!" gasped the colored man. "Why dat's Koku
hisse'f!" and he looked in awe at the likeness.

"That's what you did, Rad!"

"Me? I done dat? No, sah, Massa Tom. I neber did! No, sah!"
Eradicate spoke emphatically.

"Yes you did, Rad. You took that picture of Koku over my photo
telephone, and I want you to show me exactly what you did--what
wires and switches you touched and changed, and all that."

"Yo--yo' done say I tuck dat pishure, Massa Tom?"

"You sure did, Rad."

"Well--well, good land o' massy! An' I done dat!"

Eradicate stared in wonder at the image of the giant on the plate,
and shook his head doubtingly.

"I--I didn't know I could do it. I never knowed I had it in me!"
he murmured.

Tom and Ned laughed long and loud, and then the young inventor
said:

"Now look here, Rad. You've done me a mighty big service, though
you didn't know it, and I want to thank you. I'm sorry about your
arm, and I'll have the doctor look at it. But now I want you to
show me all the things you touched when you played that joke on
Koku. In some way you did what I haven't been able to do, You took
the picture. There's probably just one little thing I've
overlooked, and you stumbled on it by accident. Now go ahead and
show me."

Eradicate thought for a moment, and then said:

"Well, I done turned on de current, laik I seen you done, Massa
Tom."

"Yes, go on. You connected the telephone."

"Yas, sah. Den I switched on that flyer thing yo' all has rigged
up."

"You switched on the amplifier, yes. Go on."

"An'--an' den I plugged in dish year wire," and the colored man
pointed to one near the top of the booth.

"You switched on that wire, Rad! Why, great Scott, man! That's
connected to the arc light circuit--it carries over a thousand
volts. And you switched that into the telephone circuit?"

"Dat's what I done did, Massa Tom; yas, sah!"

"What for?"

"Why, I done want t' make mah voice good an' loud t' skeer dat
rascal Koku!"

Tom stared at the colored man in amazement.

"No wonder you got a shock!" exclaimed the young inventor. "You
didn't get all the thousand volts, for part of it was shunted off;
but you got a good charge, all right. So that's what did the
business; eh? It was the combination of the two electrical
circuits that sent the photograph over the wire."

"I understand it now, Rad; but you did more than I've been able to
do. I never, in a hundred years, would have thought of switching
on that current. It never occurred to me. But you, doing it by
accident, brought out the truth. It's often that way in
discoveries. And Koku was standing in the other telephone booth,
near the plate there, when you switched in this current, Rad?"

"Yas, sah, Massa Tom. He were. An' yo' ought t' see him hop when
he heard mah voice yellin' at him. Ha! ha! ha!"

Eradicate chuckled at the thought. Then a pain in his shocked arm
made him wince. A wry look passed over his face.

"Yas, sah, Koku done jump about ten feet," he said. "An'--an' den
I jump too. Ain't no use in denyin' dat fact. I done jump when I
got dat shock!"

"All right, Rad. You may go now. I think I'm on the right track!"
exclaimed Tom. "Come on, Ned, we'll try some experiments, and
we'll see what we can do."

"No shocks though--cut out the shocks, Tom," stipulated his chum.

"Oh, sure! No shocks! Now crowding busy and improve on
Eradicate's Angel Gabriel system."

Tom made a quick examination of the apparatus.

"I understand it, I think," he said. "Koku was near the plate in
the other booth when Rad put on the double current. There was a
light there, and in an instant his likeness was sent over the
wire, and imprinted on this plate. Now let's see what we can do.
You go to that other booth, Ned. I'll see if I can get your
picture, and send you mine. Here, take some extra selenium plates
along. You know how to connect them."

"I think so," answered Ned.

"This image is really too faint to be of much use," went on Tom,
as he looked at the one of Koku. "I think I can improve on it. But
we're on the right track."

A little later Ned stood in the other booth, while Tom arranged
the wires, and made the connections in the way accidently
discovered by Eradicate. The young inventor had put in a new
plate, carefully putting away the one with the picture of the
giant, This plate could be used again, when the film, into which
the image was imprinted, had been washed off.

"All ready, Ned," called Tom, over the wire, when he was about to
turn the switch. "Stand still, and I'll get you."

The connection was made, and Tom uttered a cry of joy. For there,
staring at him from the plate in front of him was the face of Ned.

It was somewhat reduced in size, of course, and was not extra
clear, but anyone who knew Ned could have told he was at the other
end of the wire.

"Do you get me, Tom?" called Ned, over the telephone.

"I sure do! Now see if you can get me."

Tom made other connections, and then looked at the sending plate
of his instrument, there being both a sending and receiving plate
in each booth, just as there was a receiver and a transmitter to
the telephone.

"Hurray! I see you, Tom!" cried Ned, over the wire. "Say, this is
great!"

"It isn't as good as I want it," went on Tom. "But it proves that
I'm right. The photo telephone is a fact, and now persons using
the wire can be sure of the other person they are conversing with.
I must tell dad. He wouldn't believe I could do it!"

And indeed Mr. Swift was surprised when Tom proved, by actual
demonstration, that a picture could be sent over the wire.

"Tom, I congratulate you!" declared the aged inventor. "It is good
news!"

"Yes, but we have bad news of Mr. Damon," said Tom, and he told
his father of the disappearance of the eccentric man. Mr. Swift at
once telephoned his sympathy to Mrs. Damon, and offered to do
anything he could for her.

"But Tom can help you more than I can," he said. "You can depend
on Tom."

"I know that," replied Mrs. Damon, over the wire.

And certainly Tom Swift had many things to do now. He hardly knew
at what to begin first, but now, since he was on the right road in
regard to his photo telephone, he would work at improving it.

And to this end he devoted himself, after he had sent out a
general alarm to the police of nearby towns, in regard to the
disappearance of Mr. Damon. The airship clue, he believed, as did
the police, would be a good one to work on.

For several days after this nothing of moment occurred. Mr. Damon
could not be located, and Tom's airship might still be sailing
above the clouds as far as getting any trace of it was concerned.

Meanwhile the young inventor, with the help of Ned, who was given
a leave of absence from the bank, worked hard to improve the photo
telephone.





CHAPTER XV

THE AIRSHIP CLUE


"Now Ned, we'll try again. I'm going to use a still stronger
current, and this is the most sensitive selenium plate I've turned
out yet. We'll see if we can't get a better likeness of you--one
that will be plainer."

It was Tom Swift who was speaking, and he and his chum had just
completed some hard work on the new photo telephone. Though the
apparatus did what Tom had claimed for it, still he was far from
satisfied. He could transmit over the wire the picture of a person
talking at the telephone, but the likeness was too faint to make
the apparatus commercially profitable.

"It's like the first moving pictures," said Tom. "They moved, but
that was about all they did."

"I say," remarked Ned, as he was about to take his place in the
booth where the telephone and apparatus were located, "this
double-strength electrical current you're speaking of won't shock
me; will it? I don't want what happened to Eradicate to happen to
me, Tom."

"Don't worry. Nothing will happen. The trouble with Rad was that
he didn't have the wires insulated when he turned that arc current
switch by mistake--or, rather, to play his joke. But he's all
right now."

"Yes, but I'm not going to take any chances," insisted Ned. "I
want to be insulated myself."

"I'll see to that," promised Tom. "Now get to your booth."

For the purpose of experiments Tom had strung a new line between
two of his shops, They were both within sight, and the line was
not very long; but, as I have said, Tom knew that if his apparatus
would work over a short distance, it would also be successful over
a long one, provided he could maintain the proper force of
current, which he was sure could be accomplished.

"And if they can send pictures from Monte Carlo to Paris I can do
the same," declared Tom, though his system of photo telephony was
different from sending by a telegraph system--a reproduction of a
picture on a copper plate. Tom's apparatus transmitted the
likeness of the living person.

It took some little time for the young inventor, and Ned working
with him, to fix up the new wires and switch on the current. But
at last it was complete, and Ned took his place at one telephone,
with the two sensitive plates before him. Tom did the same, and
they proceeded to talk over the wire, first making sure that the
vocal connection was perfect.

"All ready now, Ned! We'll try it," called Tom to his chum, over
the wire. "Look straight at the plate. I want to get your image
first, and then I'll send mine, if it's a success."

Ned did as requested, and in a few minutes he could hear Tom
exclaim, joyfully:

"It's better, Ned! It's coming out real clear. I can see you
almost as plainly as if you were right in the booth with me. But
turn on your light a little stronger."

Tom could hear, through the telephone, his chum moving about, and
then he caught a startled exclamation.

"What's the matter?" asked Tom anxiously.

"I got a shock!" cried Ned. "I thought you said you had this thing
fixed. Great Scott, Tom! It nearly yanked the arm off me! Is this
a joke?"

"No, old man. No, of course not! Something must be wrong. I didn't
mean that. Wait, I'll take a look. Say, it does seem as if
everything was going wrong with this invention. But I'm on the
right track, and soon I'll have it all right. Wait a second. I'll
be right over."

Tom found that it was only a simple displacement of a wire that
had given Ned a shock, and he soon had this remedied.

"Now we'll try again," he said. This time nothing wrong occurred,
and soon Tom saw the clearest image he had yet observed on his
telephone photo plate.

"Switch me on now, Ned," he called to his chum, and Ned reported
that he could see Tom very plainly.

"So far--so good," observed Tom, as he came from the booth. "But
there are several things I want yet to do."

"Such as what?" questioned Ned.

"Well, I want to arrange to have two kinds of pictures come over
the wire. I want it so that a person can go into a booth, call up
a friend, and then switch on the picture plate, so he can see his
friend as well as talk to him. I want this plate to be like a
mirror, so that any number of images can be made to appear on it.
In that way it can be used over and over again. In fact it will be
exactly like a mirror, or a telescope. No matter how far two
persons may be apart they can both see and talk to one another."

"That's a big contract, Tom."

"Yes, but you've seen that it can be done. Then another thing I
want to do is to have it arranged so that I can make a photograph
of a person over a wire."

"Meaning what?"

"Meaning that if a certain person talks to me over the wire, I can
turn my switch, and get a picture of him here at my apparatus
connected with my telephone. To do that I'll merely need a sending
apparatus at the other end of the telephone line--not a receiving
machine."

"Could you arrange it so that the person who was talking to you
would have his picture taken whether he wanted it or not?" asked
Ned.

"Yes, it might be done," spoke Tom, thoughtfully. "I could conceal
the sending plate somewhere in the telephone booth, and arrange
the proper light, I suppose."

"That might be a good way in which to catch a criminal," went on
Ned. "Often crooks call up on the telephone, but they know they
are safe. The authorities can't see them--they can only hear them.
Now if you could get a photograph of them while they were
telephoning--"

"I see!" cried Tom, excitedly. "That's a great idea! I'll work on
that, Ned."

And, all enthusiasm, Tom began to plan new schemes with his photo
telephone.

The young inventor did not forget his promise to help Mrs. Damon.
But he could get absolutely no clue to her husband's whereabouts.
Mr. Damon had completely and mysteriously disappeared. His
fortune, too, seemed to have been swallowed up by the sharpers,
though lawyers engaged by Tom could fasten no criminal acts on Mr.
Peters, who indignantly denied that he had done anything unlawful.

If he had, he had done it in such a way that he could not be
brought to justice. The promoter was still about Shopton, as well
groomed as ever, with his rose in his buttonhole, and wearing his
silk hat. He still speeded up and down Lake Carlopa in his
powerful motor boat. But he gave Tom Swift a wide berth.

Late one night, when Tom and Ned had been working at the new photo
telephone, after all the rest of the household had retired, Tom
suddenly looked up from his drawings and exclaimed:

"What's that?"

"What's what?" inquired Ned.

"That sound? Don't you hear it? Listen!"

"It's an airship--maybe yours coming back!" cried the young
banker.

As he spoke Ned did hear, seemingly in the air above the house, a
curious, throbbing, pulsating sound.

"That's so! It is an airship motor!" exclaimed Tom. "Come on out!"

Together they rushed from the house, but, ere they reached the
yard, the sound had ceased. They looked up into the sky, but could
see nothing, though the night was light from a full moon.

"I certainly heard it," said Tom.

"So did I," asserted Ned. "But where is it now?"

They advanced toward the group of work-buildings. Something
showing white in the moonlight, before the hangar, caught Ned's
eyes.

"Look!" he exclaimed. "There's an airship, Tom!"

The two rushed over to the level landing place before the big
shed. And there, as if she had just been run out for a flight, was
the Eagle. She had come back in the night, as mysteriously as she
had been taken away.





CHAPTER XVI

SUCCESS


"Well, this gets me!" exclaimed Tom.

"It sure is strange," agreed Ned. "How did she come here?"

"She didn't come alone--that's sure," went on Tom. "Someone
brought her here, made a landing, and got away before we could get
out."

The two chums were standing near the Eagle, which had come back so
mysteriously.

"Just a couple of seconds sooner and we'd have seen who brought
her here," went on Tom. "But they must have shut off the motor
some distance up, and then they volplaned down. That's why we
didn't hear them."

Ned went over and put his hand on the motor.

"Ouch!" he cried, jumping back. "It's hot!"

"Showing that she's been running up to within a few minutes ago,"
said Tom. "Well, as I said before, this sure does get me. First
these mysterious men take my airship, and then they bring her back
again, without so much as thanking me for the use of her."

"Who in the world can they be?" asked Ned.

"I haven't the least idea. But I'm going to find out, if it's at
all possible. We'll look the machine over in the morning, and see
if we can get any clues. No use in doing that now. Come on, we'll
put her back in the hangar."

"Say!" exclaimed Ned, as a sudden idea came to him. "It couldn't
be Mr. Damon who had your airship; could it, Tom?"

"I don't know. Why do you ask that?"

"Well, he might have wanted to get away from his enemies for a
while, and he might have taken your Eagle, and--"

"Mr. Damon wouldn't trail along with a crowd like the one that
took away my airship," said Tom, decidedly. "You've got another
guess coming, Ned. Mr. Damon had nothing to do with this."

"And yet the night he disappeared an airship was heard near his
house."

"That's so. Well, I give up. This is sure a mystery. We'll have a
look at it in the morning. One thing I'll do, though, I'll
telephone over to Mr. Damon's house and see if his wife has heard
any news. I've been doing that quite often of late, so she won't
think anything of it. In that way we can find out if he had
anything to do with my airship. But let's run her into the shed
first."

This was done, and Koku, the giant, was sent to sleep in the
hangar to guard against another theft. But it was not likely that
the mysterious men, once having brought the airship back, would
come for it again.

Tom called up Mrs. Damon on the telephone, but there was no news
of the missing man. He expressed his sympathy, and said he would
come and see her soon. He told Mrs. Damon not to get discouraged,
adding that he, and others, were doing all that was possible. But,
in spite of this, Mrs. Damon, naturally, did worry.

The next morning the two chums inspected the airship, so
mysteriously returned to them. Part after part they went over, and
found nothing wrong. The motor ran perfectly, and there was not so
much as a bent spoke in the landing wheels. For all that could be
told by an inspection of the craft she might never have been out
of the hangar.

"Hello, here's something!" cried Tom, as he got up from the
operator's seat, where he had taken his place to test the various
controls.

"What is it?" asked Ned.

"A button. A queer sort of a button. I never had any like that on
my clothes, and I'm sure you didn't. Look!" and Tom held out a
large, metal button of curious design.

"It must have come off the coat of one of the men who had your
airship, Tom," said his chum. "Save it. You may find that it's a
clue."

"I will. No telling what it may lead to. Well, I guess that's all
we can find."

And it was. But Tom little realized what a clue the button was
going to be. Nothing more could be learned by staring at the
returned airship, so he and Ned went back to the house.

Tom Swift had many things to do, but his chief concern was for the
photo telephone. Now that he was near the goal of success he
worked harder than ever. The idea Ned had given him of being able
to take the picture of a person at the instrument--without the
knowledge of that person--appealed strongly to Tom.

"That's going to be a valuable invention!" he declared, but little
he knew how valuable it would prove to him and to others.

It was about a week later when Tom was ready to try the new
apparatus. Meanwhile he had prepared different plates, and had
changed his wiring system. In the days that had passed nothing new
had been learned concerning the whereabouts of Mr. Damon, nor of
the men who had so mysteriously taken away Tom's airship.

All was in readiness for the trial. Tom sent Ned to the booth that
he had constructed in the airship hangar, some distance away from
the house. The other booth Tom had placed in his library, an
entirely new system of wires being used.

"Now Ned," explained Tom, "the idea is this! You go into that
booth, just as if it were a public one, and ring me up in the
regular way. Of course we haven't a central here, but that doesn't
matter. Now while I'm talking to you I want to see you. You don't
know that, of course."

"The point is to see if I can get your picture while you're
talking to me, and not let you know a thing about it."

"Think you can do it, Tom?"

"I'm going to try. We'll soon know. Go ahead."

A little later Ned was calling up his chum, as casually as he
could, under the circumstances.

"All right!" called Tom to his chum. "Start in and talk. Say
anything you like--it doesn't matter. I want to see if I can get
your picture. Is the light burning in your booth?"

"Yes, Tom."

"All right then. Go ahead."

Ned talked of the weather--of anything. Meanwhile Tom was busy.
Concealed in the booth occupied by Ned was a sending plate. It
could not be seen unless one knew just where to look for it. In
Tom's booth was a receiving plate.

The experiment did not take long. Presently Tom called to Ned that
he need stay there no longer.

"Come on to the house," invited the young inventor, "and we'll
develope this plate." For in this system it was necessary to
develope the receiving plate, as is done with an ordinary
photographic one. Tom wanted a permanent record.

Eagerly the chums in the dark room looked down into the tray
containing the plate and the developing solution.

"Something's coming out!" cried Ned, eagerly.

"Yes! And it's you!" exclaimed Tom. "See, Ned, I got your picture
over the telephone. Success! I've struck it! This is the best
yet!"

At that moment, as the picture came out more and more plainly,
someone knocked on the door of the dark room.

"Who is it?" asked Tom.

"Gen'man t' see you," said Eradicate. "He say he come from Mistah
Peters!"

"Mr. Peters--that rascally promoter!" whispered Tom to his chum.
"What does this mean?"





CHAPTER XVII

THE MYSTERIOUS MESSAGE


Tom Swift and his chum looked at one another strangely for a
moment in the dim, red light of the dark room. Then the young
inventor spoke:

"I'm not going to see him. Tell him so, Rad!"

"Hold on a second," suggested Ned. "Maybe you had better see him,
Tom. It may have something to with Mr. Damon's lost fortune."

"That's so! I didn't think of that. And I may get a clue to his
disappearance, though I don't imagine Peters had anything to do
with that. Wait, Rad. Tell the gentleman I'll see him. Did he give
any name, Rad?"

"Yas, sah. Him done say him Mistah Boylan."

"The same man who called to see me once before, trying to get me
to do some business with Peters," murmured Tom. "Very well, I'll
see him as soon as this picture is fixed. Tell him to wait, Rad."

A little later Tom went to where his caller awaited in the
library. This time there were no plans to be looked at, the young
inventor having made a practice of keeping all his valuable papers
locked in a safe.

"You go into the next room, Ned," Tom had said to his chum. "Leave
the door open, so you can hear what is said."

"Why, do you think there'll be trouble? Maybe we'd better have
Koku on hand to--"

"Oh, no, nothing like that," laughed Tom. "I just want you to
listen to what's said so, if need be, you can be a witness later.
I don't know what their game is, but I don't trust Peters and his
crowd. They may want to get control of some of my patents, and
they may try some underhanded work. If they do I want to be in a
position to stop them."

"All right," agreed Ned, and he took his place.

But Mr. Boylan's errand was not at all sensational, it would seem.
He bowed to Tom, perhaps a little distantly, for they had not
parted the best of friends on a former occasion.

"I suppose you are surprised to see me," began Mr. Boylan.

"Well, I am, to tell the truth," Tom said, calmly.

"I am here at the request of my employer, Mr. Peters," went on the
caller. "He says he is forming a new and very powerful company to
exploit airships, and he wants to know whether you would not
reconsider your determination not to let him do some business for
you."

"No, I'm afraid I don't care to go into anything like that," said
Tom.

"It would be a good thing for you," proceeded Mr. Boylan, eagerly.
"Mr. Peters is able to command large capital, and if you would
permit the use of your airships--or one of them--as a model, and
would supervise the construction of others, we could confidently
expect large sales. Thus you would profit, and I am frank to admit
that the company, and Mr. Peters, also, would make money. Mr.
Peters is perfectly free to confess that he is in business to make
money, but he is also willing to let others share with him. Come
now, what do you say?"

"I am sorry, but I shall have to say the same thing I said
before," replied Tom. "Nothing doing!"

Mr. Boylan glanced rather angrily at the young inventor, and then,
with a shrug of his shoulders, remarked:

"Well, you have the say, of course. But I would like to remind you
that this is going to be a very large airship company, and if your
inventions are not exploited some others will be. And Mr. Peters
also desired me to say that this is the last offer he would make
you."

"Tell him," said Tom, "that I am much obliged, but that I have no
business that I can entrust to him. If he wishes to make some
other type of airship, that is his affair. Good-day."

As Mr. Boylan was going out Tom noticed a button dangling from the
back of his caller's coat. It hung by a thread, being one of the
pair usually sewed on the back of a cutaway garment.

"I think you had better take off that button before it falls,"
suggested Tom. "You may lose it, and perhaps it would be hard to
match."

"That's so. Thank you!" said Mr. Boylan. He tried to reach around
and get it, but he was too stout to turn easily, especially as the
coat was tight-fitting.

"I'll get it for you," offered Tom, as he pulled it off. "There is
one missing, though," he said, as he handed the button to the man.
And then Tom started as he saw the pattern of the one in his hand.

"One gone? That's too bad," murmured Mr. Boylan. "Those buttons
were imported, and I doubt if I can replace them. They are rather
odd."

"Yes," agreed Tom, gazing as if fascinated at the one he still
held. "They are rather odd."

And then, as he passed it over, like a flash it came to him where
he had seen a button like that before. He had found it in his
airship, which had been so mysteriously taken away and returned.

Tom could hardly restrain his impatience until Mr. Boylan had
gone. The young inventor had half a notion to produce the other
button, matching the one he had just pulled off his visitor's
coat, and tell where he had found it. But he held himself back. He
wanted to talk first to Ned.

And, when his chum came in, Tom cried:

"Ned, what do you think? I know who had my airship!"

"How?" asked Ned, in wonder.

"By that button clue! Yes, it's the same kind--they're as alike as
twins!" and Tom brought out the button which he had put away in
his desk. "See, Boylan had one just like this on the back of his
coat. The other was missing. Here it is--it was in the seat of my
airship, where it was probably pulled off as he moved about. Ned,
I think I've got the right clue at last."

Ned said nothing for several seconds. Then he remarked slowly:

"Well, Tom, it proves one thing; but not the other."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that it may be perfectly true that the button came off Mr.
Boylan's coat, but that doesn't prove that he wore it. You can be
reasonably sure that the coat was having a ride in your Eagle, but
was Boylan in the coat? That's the question."

"In the coat? Of course he was in it!" cried Tom.

"You can't be sure. Someone may have borrowed his coat to take a
midnight ride in the airship."

"Mr. Boylan doesn't look to be the kind of a man who would lend
his clothes," remarked Tom.

"You never can tell. Someone may have borrowed it without his
knowledge. You'd better go a bit slow, Tom."

"Well, maybe I had. But it's a clue, anyhow."

Ned agreed to this.

"And all I've got to do is to find out who was in the coat when it
was riding about in my airship," went on Tom.

"Yes," said Ned, "and then maybe you'll have some clue to the
disappearance of Mr. Damon."

"Right you are! Come on, let's get busy!"

"As if we hadn't been busy all the while!" laughed Ned. "I'll lose
my place at the bank if I don't get back soon."

"Oh, stay a little longer--a few days," urged Tom. "I'm sure that
something is going to happen soon. Anyhow my photo telephone is
about perfected. But I've just thought of another improvement."

"What is it?"

"I'm going to arrange a sort of dictaphone, or phonograph, so I
can get a permanent record of what a person says over the wire, as
well as get a picture of him saying it. Then everything will be
complete. This last won't be hard to do, as there are several
machines on the market now, for preserving a record of telephone
conversations. I'll make mine a bit different, though."

"Tom, is there any limit to what you're going to do?" asked Ned,
admiringly.

"Oh, yes, I'm going to stop soon, and retire," laughed the young
inventor.

After talking the matter over, Tom and his chum decided to wait a
day or so before taking any action in regard to the button clue to
the takers of the airship. After all, no great harm had been done,
and Tom was more anxious to locate Mr. Damon, and try to get back
his fortune, as well as to perfect his photo telephone, than he
was to discover those who had helped themselves to the Eagle.

Tom and Ned put in some busy days, arranging the phonograph
attachment. It was easy, compared to the hard work of sending a
picture over the wire. They paid several visits to Mrs. Damon, but
she had no news of her missing husband, and, as the days went by,
she suffered more and more under the strain.

Finally Tom's new invention was fully completed. It was a great
success, and he not only secured pictures of Ned and others over
the wire, as he talked to them, but he imprinted on wax cylinders,
to be reproduced later, the very things they said.

It was a day or so after he had demonstrated his new attachment
for the first time, that Tom received a most urgent message from
Mrs. Damon.

"Tom," she said, over the telephone, "I wish you would call.
Something very mysterious has happened."

"Mr. Damon hasn't come back; has he?" asked Tom eagerly.

"No--but I wish I could say he had. This concerns him, however.
Can you come?"

"I'll be there right away."

In his speedy monoplane Tom soon reached Waterford. Ned did not
accompany him this time.

"Now what is it, Mrs. Damon?" asked the young inventor.

"About half an hour before I called you," she said, "I received a
mysterious message."

"Who brought it?" asked Tom quickly.

"No one. It came over the telephone. Someone, whose voice I did
not know, said to me: 'Sign the land papers, and send them to us,
and your husband will be released.'"

"That message came over the wire?" cried Tom, excitedly.

"Yes," answered Mrs. Damon. "Oh, I am so frightened! I don't know
what to do!" and the lady burst into tears.





CHAPTER XVIII

ANOTHER CALL


Tom Swift, for the moment, did not know what to do. It was a
strange situation, and one he had never thought of. What did the
mysterious message mean? He must think it all out, and plan some
line of action. Clearly Mrs. Damon was not able to do so.

"Now let's get at this in some kind of order," suggested the
youth, when Mrs. Damon had calmed herself. It was his habit to
have a method about doing things. "And don't worry," he advised.
"I am certain some good will come of this. It proves one thing,
that's sure."

"What is it, Tom?"

"That Mr. Damon is alive and well. Otherwise the message would not
have said he would be 'released.' It wasn't from anyone you know;
was it?"

"No, I'm sure I never heard the voice before."

Tom paused a moment to think how useful his photo telephone and
phonograph arrangement might have been in this case.

"How did the telephone call come in?" inquired the young inventor.

"In the usual way," answered Mrs. Damon. "The bell rang, and, as I
happened to be near the instrument, I answered it, as I often do,
when the maid is busy. A voice asked if I was Mrs. Damon, and of
course I said I was. Then I heard this: 'Sign the land papers, and
send them to us, and your husband will be released.'"

"Was that all?" Tom asked.

"I think so--I made a note of it at the time." Mrs. Damon looked
into a small red book. "No, that wasn't all," she said, quickly.
"I was so astonished, at hearing those strange words about my
husband, that I didn't know what to say. Before I could ask any
questions the voice went on to say, rather abruptly: 'We will call
you again.'"

"That's good!" cried Tom. "I only hope they do it while I am here.
Perhaps I can get some clue as to who it was called you. But was
this all you heard?"

"Yes, I'm sure that was all. I had forgotten about the last words,
but I see I have them written down in my note book."

"Did you ask any questions?" inquired Tom.

"Oh, indeed I did! As soon as I got over being stunned by what I
heard, I asked all sorts of questions. I demanded to know who was
speaking, what they meant, where they were, and all that. I begged
them to tell me something of my husband."

"And what did they say?"

"Not a thing. There wasn't a sound in the telephone. The receiver
was hung up, breaking the connection after that message to me--that
mysterious message."

"Yes, it was mysterious," agreed Tom, thoughtfully. "I can't
understand it. But didn't you try to learn from the central
operator where the call had come from?"

"Oh, yes, indeed, Tom! As soon as I found out the person speaking
to me had rung off, I got the girl in the exchange."

"And what did she say?"

"That the call came from an automatic pay station in a drug store
in town. I have the address. It was one of those telephones where
you put your money for the call in a slot."

"I see. Well, the first thing to do is for me to go to that drug
store and find out, if I can, who used the telephone about that
time. It's a slim chance, but we'll have to take it. Was it a
man's voice, or a woman's?"

"Oh, a man's, I'm sure. It was very deep and heavy. No woman could
speak like that."

"So much is settled, anyhow. Now about the land papers--what was
meant?"

"I'll tell you," said Mrs. Damon. "You know part of our
property--considerable land and some buildings--is in my name. Mr. Damon
had it fixed so a number of years ago, in order to protect me. No one
could get this property, and land, unless I signed the deeds, or
agreed to sign them. Now all of Mr. Damon's fortune is tied up in
some of Mr. Peters's companies. That is why my husband has
disappeared."

"He didn't disappear--he was taken away against his will; I'm
positive of that!" exclaimed Tom.

"Perhaps so," agreed Mrs. Damon, sadly. "But those are the papers
referred to, I'm sure."

"Probably," assented Tom. "The rascals want to get control of
everything--even your possessions. Not satisfied with ruining Mr.
Damon, they want to make you a beggar, too. So they are playing on
your fears. They promise to release your husband if you will give
them the land."

"Yes, that must be it, Tom. What would you advise me to do? I am
so frightened over this!"

"Do? Don't you do anything!" cried Tom. "We'll fool these rascals
yet. If they got those papers they might release Mr. Damon, or
they might not--fearing he would cause their arrest later. But
we'll have him released anyhow, and we'll save what is left of
your fortune. Put those land papers in a safe-deposit box, and let
me do the rest. I'm going to catch those fellows!"

"But how, Tom? You don't know who they are. And a mere message
over a telephone won't give you a clue to where they are."

"Perhaps not an ordinary message," agreed Tom. "But I'm going to
try some of my new inventions. You said they told you they were
going to call again?"

"That's what they said, Tom."

"Well, when they do, I want to be here. I want to listen to that
message. If you will allow me, I'll take up my residence here for
a while, Mrs. Damon."

"Allow you? I'll be only too glad if you will, Tom. But I thought
you were going to try to get some clue from the drug store where
the mysterious message came from."

"I'll let Ned Newton do that. I want to stay here."

Tom telephoned to Ned to meet him at Mrs. Damon's house, and also
to bring with him certain things from the laboratory. And when Ned
arrived in an auto, with various bits of apparatus, Tom put in
some busy hours.

Meanwhile Ned was sent to the drug store, to see if any clues
could be obtained there as to who had sent the message. As Tom had
feared, nothing could be learned. There were several automatic
'phones in the place, and they were used very often during the day
by the public. The drug clerks took little or no notice of the
persons entering or leaving the booths, since the dropping of a
coin in the slot was all that was necessary to be connected with
central.

"Well, we've got to wait for the second call here," said Tom, who
had been busy during Ned's absence. He had fitted to Mrs. Damon's
telephone a recording wax phonograph cylinder, to get a record of
the speaker's voice. And he had also put in an extension
telephone, so that he could listen while Mrs. Damon talked to the
unknown.

"There, I guess we're ready for them," said Tom, late that
afternoon. But no queer call came in that day. It was the next
morning, about ten o'clock, after Mrs. Damon had passed a restless
night, that the telephone bell rang. Tom, who was on the alert,
was at his auxiliary instrument in a flash. He motioned to Mrs.
Damon to answer on the main wire.

"Hello," she spoke into the transmitter. "Who is this?"

"Are you Mrs. Damon?" Tom heard come over the wire in a deep
voice, and by the manner in which Mrs. Damon signalled the young
inventor knew that, at the other end of the line, was the
mysterious man who had spoken before.





CHAPTER XIX

THE BUZZING SOUND


"Are you Mrs. Damon?" came the question again--rather more
impatiently this time, Tom thought.

"Yes," answered the lady, glancing over at Tom. The extension
telephone was in the same room. Softly Tom switched on the
phonograph attachment. The little wax cylinder began to revolve
noiselessly, ready to record the faintest word that came over the
wire.

"You got a message from me yesterday," went on the hoarse voice.
In vain Tom tried to recall whether or not he had heard it before.
He could not place it.

"Who are you?" asked Mrs. Damon. She and Tom had previously agreed
on a line of talk. "Tell me your name, please."

"There's no need for any names to be used," went on the unknown at
the other end of the wire. "You heard what I said yesterday. Are
you willing to send me those land title papers, if we release your
husband?"

"But where shall I send them?" asked Mrs. Damon, to gain time.

"You'll be told where. And listen--no tricks! You needn't try to
find out who I am, nor where I am. Just send those papers if you
want to see your husband again."

"Oh, how is he? Tell me about him! You are cruel to keep him a
prisoner like this! I demand that you release him!"

Tom had not told Mrs. Damon to say this. It came out of her own
heart--she could not prevent the agonized outburst.

"Never mind about that, now," came the gruff voice over the wire.
"Are you willing to send the papers?"

Mrs. Damon looked over to Tom for silent instructions. He nodded
his head in assent.

"Yes, I--I will send them if you tell me where to get them to you--if
you will release Mr. Damon," said the anxious wife. "But tell
me who you are--and where you are!" she begged.

"None of that! I'm not looking to be arrested. You get the papers
ready, and I'll let you know to-morrow, about this time, where to
send them."

"Wait a minute!" called Mrs. Damon, to gain more time. "I must
know just what papers you want."

"All right, I'll tell you," and he began to describe the different
ones.

It took a little time for the unknown to give this information to
Mrs. Damon. The man was very particular about the papers. There
were trust deeds, among other things, and he probably thought that
once he had possession of them, with Mrs. Damon's signature, even
though it had been obtained under a threat, he could claim the
property. Later it was learned that such was not the case, for
Mrs. Damon, with Tom's aid, could have proved the fraud, had the
scoundrels tried to get the remainder of the Damon fortune.

But at the time it seemed to the helpless woman that everything
she owned would be taken from her. Though she said she did not
care, as long as Mr. Damon was restored to her.

As I have said, the telephoning of the instructions about the
papers took some time. Tom had counted on this, and had made his
plans accordingly.

As soon as the telephone call had come in, Tom had communicated
with a private detective who was in waiting, and this man had gone
to the drug store whence the first call had come. He was going to
try to make the arrest of the man telephoning.

But for fear the scoundrel would go to a different instrument, Tom
took another precaution. This was to have one of the operators in
the central exchange on the watch. As soon as Mrs. Damon's house
was in connection with another telephone, the location of the
latter would be noted, and another private detective would be sent
there. Thus Tom hoped to catch the man at the 'phone.

Meanwhile Tom listened to the hoarse voice at the other end of the
wire, giving the directions to Mrs. Damon. Tom hoped that soon
there would be an arrest made.

Meanwhile the talk was being faithfully recorded on the phonograph
cylinder. And, as the man talked on, Tom became aware of a curious
undercurrent of sound. It was a buzzing noise, that Tom knew did
not come from the instrument itself. It was not the peculiar
tapping, singing noise heard in a telephone receiver, caused by
induced electrical currents, or by wire trouble.

"This is certainly different," mused Tom. He was trying to recall
where he had heard the noise before. Sometimes it was faint, and
then it would gradually increase, droning off into faintness once
more. Occasionally it was so loud that Mrs. Damon could not hear
the talk about the papers, and the man would have to repeat.

But finally he came to an end.

"This is all now," he said, sharply. Tom heard the words above the
queer, buzzing, humming sound. "You are keeping me too long. I
think you are up to some game, but it won't do you any good, Mrs.
Damon. I'll 'phone you to-morrow where to send the papers. And if
you don't send them--if you try any tricks--it will be the worse
for you and Mr. Damon!"

There was a click, that told of a receiver being placed back on
the hook, and the voice ceased. So, also, did the queer, buzzing
sound over which Tom puzzled.

"What can it have been?" he asked. "Did you hear it, Mrs. Damon?"

"What, Tom?"

"That buzzing sound."

"Yes, I heard, but I didn't know what it was. Oh, Tom, what shall
I do?"

"Don't worry. We'll see if anything happened. They may have caught
that fellow. If not I'll plan another scheme."

Tom's first act was to call up the telephone exchange to learn
where the second call had come from. He got the information at
once. The address was in the suburbs. The man had not gone to the
drug store this time.

"Did the detective get out to that address?" asked Tom eagerly of
the manager.

"Yes. As soon as we were certain that he was the party you wanted,
your man got right after him, Mr. Swift."

"That's good, I hope he catches him!" cried the young inventor. "We'll
have to wait and find out."

"He said he'd call up and let you know as soon as he reached the
place," the telephone manager informed Tom.

There was nothing to do but wait, and meanwhile Tom did what he
could to comfort Mrs. Damon. She was quite nervous and inclined to
be hysterical, and the youth thought it wise to have a cousin, who
had come to stay with her, summon the doctor.

"But, Tom, what shall I do about those papers?" Mrs. Damon asked
him. "Shall I send them?"

"Indeed not!"

"But I want Mr. Damon restored to me," she pleaded. "I don't care
about the money. He can make more."

"Well, we'll not give those scoundrels the satisfaction of getting
any money out of you. Just wait now, I'll work this thing out, and
find a way to catch that fellow. If I could only think what that
buzzing sound was--"

Then, in a flash, it came to Tom.

"A sawmill! A planing mill!" he cried. "That's what it was! That
fellow was telephoning from some place near a sawmill!"

The telephone rang in the midst of Tom's excited comments.

"Yes--yes!" he called eagerly. "Who is it--what is it?"

"This is Larsen--the private detective you sent."

"Oh, yes, you were at the drug store."

"Yes, Mr. Swift. Well, that party didn't call up from here."

"I know, Larsen. It was from another station. We're after him.
Much obliged to you. Come on back."

Tom was sure his theory was right. The man had called up the Damon
house from some telephone near a sawmill. And a little later Tom's
theory was proved to be true. He got a report from the second
detective. Unfortunately the man had not been able to reach the
telephone station before the unknown speaker had departed.

"Was the place near a sawmill?" asked Tom, eagerly.

"It was," answered the detective over the wire. "The telephone is
right next door to one. It's an automatic pay station and no one
seems to have noticed who the man was who telephoned. I couldn't
get a single clue. I'm sorry."

"Never mind," said Tom, as cheerfully as he could. "I think I'm on
the right track now. I'm going to lay a trap for this fellow."





CHAPTER XX

SETTING THE TRAP


Troublesome problems seemed to be multiplying for Tom Swift. He
admitted as much himself after the failure to capture the man who
had telephoned to Mrs. Damon. He had hoped that his plan of
sending detectives to the location of the telephones would
succeed. Since it had not the youth must try other means.

"Now, Ned," he said to his chum, when they were on their way from
Mrs. Damon's, it being impossible to do anything further there.
"Now, Ned, we've got to think this thing out together."

"I'm willing, Tom. I'll do what I can."

"I know you will. Now the thing to do is to go at this thing
systematically. Otherwise we'll be working around in a circle, and
won't get anywhere. In the first place, let's set down what we do
know. Then we'll put down what we don't know, and go after that."

"Put down what you don't know?" exclaimed Ned. "How are you going
to put down a thing when you don't know it?"

"I mean we can put a question mark after it, so to speak. For
instance we don't know where Mr. Damon is, but we want to find
out."

"Oh, I see. Well, let's start off with the things we do know."

The two friends were at Tom's house by now, having come from
Waterford in Tom's airship. After thinking over all the exciting
happenings of the past few days, Tom remarked: "Now, Ned, for the
things we do know. In the first place Mr. Damon is missing, and
his fortune is about gone. There is considerable left to Mrs.
Damon, however, but those scoundrels may get that away from her,
if we don't watch out. Secondly, my airship was taken and brought
back, with a button more than it had when it went away. Said
button exactly matched one off Mr. Boylan's coat."

"Thirdly, Mr. Damon was either taken away or went away, in an
airship--either in mine or someone else's. Fourthly, Mrs. Damon
has received telephonic communications from the man, or men, who
have her husband. Fifthly, Mr. Peters, either legally or
illegally, is responsible for the loss of Mr. Damon's fortune.
Now: there you are--for the things we do know."

"Now for the things we don't know. We don't know who has taken
Mr. Damon away, nor where he is, to begin with the most important."

"Hold on, Tom, I think you're wrong," broke in Ned.

"In what way?"

"About not knowing who is responsible for the taking away of Mr.
Damon. I think it's as plain as the nose on your face that Peters
is responsible."

"I can't see it that way," said Tom, quickly. "I will admit that
it looks as though Boylan had been in my airship, but as for
Peters taking Mr. Damon away--why, Peters is around town all the
while, and if he had a hand in the disappearance of Mr. Damon, do
you think he'd stay here, when he knows we are working on the
case? And would he send Boylan to see me if Boylan had been one of
those who had a hand in it? They wouldn't dare, especially as they
know I'm working on the case."

"Peters is a bad lot. I'll grant you, though, he was fair enough
to pay for my motor boat. I don't believe he had anything to do
with taking Mr. Damon away."

"Do you think he was the person who was talking to Mrs. Damon
about the papers?"

"No, Ned. I don't. I listened to that fellow's voice carefully. It
wasn't like Peters's. I'm going to put it in the phonograph, too,
and let you listen to it. Then see what you say."

Tom did this, a little later. The record of the voice, as it came
over the wire, was listened to from the wax cylinder, and Ned had
to admit that it was not much like that of the promoter.

"Well, what's next to be done?" asked the young banker.

"I'm going to set a trap," replied Tom, with a grin.

"Set a trap?"

"Yes, a sort of mouse-trap. I'm glad my photo telephone is now
perfected, Ned."

"What has that got to do with it?"

"That's going to be my trap, Ned. Here is my game. You know this
fellow--this strange unknown--is going to call up Mrs. Damon
to-morrow. Well, I'll be ready for him. I'm going to put in the booth
where he will telephone from, one of my photo telephones--that is, the
sending apparatus. In Mrs. Damon's house, attached to her telephone,
will be the receiving plate, as well as the phonograph cylinder."

"When this fellow starts to talk he'll be sending us his picture,
though he won't know it, and we'll be getting a record of his
voice. Then we'll have him just where we want him."

"Good!" cried Ned. "But, Tom, there's a weak spot in your mouse-trap."

"What is it?"

"How are you going to know which telephone the unknown will call
up from? He may go to any of a hundred, more or less."

"He might--yes. But that's a chance we've got to take. It isn't so
much of a chance, though when you stop to think that he will
probably go to some public telephone in an isolated spot, and,
unless I'm much mistaken he will go to a telephone near where he
was to-day. He knows that was safe, since we didn't capture him,
and he's very likely to come back."

"But to make the thing as sure as possible, I'm going to attach my
apparatus to a number of public telephones in the vicinity of the
one near the sawmill. So if the fellow doesn't get caught in one,
he will in another. I admit it's taking a chance; but what else
can we do?"

"I suppose you're right, Tom. It's like setting a number of
traps."

"Exactly. A trapper can't be sure where he is going to get his
catch, so he picks out the place, or run-way, where the game has
been in the habit of coming. He hides his traps about that place,
and trusts to luck that the animal will blunder into one of them."

"Criminals, to my way of thinking, are a good bit like animals.
They seem to come back to their old haunts. Nearly any police
story proves this. And it's that on which I am counting to capture
this criminal. So I'm going to fit up as many telephones with my
photo and phonograph outfit, as I can in the time we have. You'll
have to help me. Luckily I've got plenty of selenium plates for
the sending end. I'll only need one at the receiving end. Now
we'll have to go and have a talk with the telephone manager, after
which we'll get busy."

"You've overlooked one thing, Tom."

"What's that, Ned?"

"Why, if you know about which telephone this fellow is going to
use, why can't you have police stationed near it to capture him as
soon as he begins to talk?"

"Well, I did think of that, Ned; but it won't work."

"Why not?"

"Because, in the first place this man, or some of his friends,
will be on the watch. When he goes into the place to telephone
there'll be a look-out, I'm sure, and he'd either put off talking
to Mrs. Damon, or he'd escape before we had any evidence against
him."

"You see I've got to get evidence that will stand in the courts to
convict this fellow, and if he's scared off before we get that,
the game will be up."

"That's what my photo telephone will do--it will get the evidence,
just as a dictaphone does. In fact, I'm thinking of working it out
on those lines, after I clear up this business."

"Just suppose we had detectives stationed at all the telephones
near the sawmill, where this fellow would be likely to go. In the
first place no one has seen him, as far as we know, so there's no
telling what sort of a chap he is. And you can't go up to a
perfect stranger and arrest him because you think he is the man
who has spirited away Mr. Damon."

"Another thing. Until this fellow has talked, and made his offer
to Mrs. Damon, to restore her husband, in exchange for certain
papers, we have no hold over him."

"But he has done that, Tom. You heard him, and you have his voice
down on the wax cylinder."

"Yes, but I haven't had a glimpse of his face. That's what I want,
and what I'm going to get. Suppose he does go into the telephone
booth, and tell Mrs. Damon an address where she is to send the
papers. Even if a detective was near at hand he might not catch
what was said. Or, if he did, on what ground could he arrest a man
who, very likely, would be a perfect stranger to him? The
detective couldn't say: 'I take you into custody for telephoning
an address to Mrs. Damon.' That, in itself, is no crime."

"No, I suppose not," admitted Ned. "You've got this all thought
out, Tom."

"I hope I have. You see it takes quite a combination to get
evidence against a criminal--evidence that will convict him.
That's why I have to be so careful in setting my trap."

"I see, Tom. Well, it's about time for us to get busy; isn't it?"

"It sure is. There's lots to do. First we'll go see the telephone
people."

Tom explained to the 'phone manager the necessity for what he was
about to do. The manager at once agreed to let the young inventor
have a free hand. He was much interested in the photo telephone,
and Tom promised to give his company a chance to use it on their
lines, later.

The telephone near the sawmill was easily located. It was in a
general store, and the instrument was in a booth. To this
instrument Tom attached his sending plate, and he also substituted
for the ordinary incandescent light, a powerful tungsten one, that
would give illumination enough to cause the likeness to be
transmitted over the wire.

The same thing was done to a number of the public telephones in
that vicinity, each one being fitted up so that the picture of
whoever talked would be transmitted over the wire when Tom turned
the switch. To help the plan further the telephone manager marked
a number of other 'phones, "Out of Order," for the time being.

"Now, I think we're done!" exclaimed the young inventor, with a
sigh, late that night. He and Ned and the line manager had worked
hard.

"Yes," answered the young banker, "the traps are set. The question
is: Will our rat be caught?"





CHAPTER XXI

THE PHOTO TELEPHONE


Tom Swift was taking, as he afterward confessed, "a mighty big
chance." But it seemed the only way. He was working against
cunning men, and had to be as cunning as they.

True, the man he hoped to capture, through the combination of his
photo telephone and the phonograph, might go to some other
instrument than one of those Tom had adjusted. But this could not
be helped. In all he had put his new attachment on eight 'phones
in the vicinity of the sawmill. So he had eight chances in his
favor, and as many against him as there were other telephones in
use.

"It's a mighty small margin in our favor," sighed Tom.

"It sure is," agreed Ned. They were at Mrs. Damon's house,
waiting for the call to come in.

"But we couldn't do anything else," went on Tom.

"No," spoke Ned, "and I have a great deal of hope in the
proverbial Swift luck, Tom."

"Well, I only hope it holds good this time!" laughed the young
inventor.

"There are a good many things that can go wrong," observed Ned.
"The least little slip-up may spoil your traps, Tom."

"I know it, Ned. But I've got to take the chance. We've just got
to do something for Mrs. Damon. She's wearing herself out by
worrying," he added in a low voice, for indeed the wife of his
friend felt the absence of her husband greatly. She had lost
flesh, she ate scarcely anything, and her nights were wakeful ones
of terror.

"What if this fails?" asked Ned.

"Then I'm going to work that button clue to the limit," replied
Tom. "I'll go to Boylan and see what he and Peters have to say."

"If you'd done as I suggested you'd have gone to them first,"
spoke Ned. "You'll find they're mixed up in this."

"Maybe; but I doubt it. I tell you there isn't a clue leading to
Peters--as yet."

"But there will be," insisted Ned. "You'll see that that I'm right
this time."

"I can't see it, Ned. As a matter of fact, I would have gone to
Boylan about that button I found in my airship only I've been so
busy on this photo telephone, and in arranging the trap, that I
haven't had time. But if this fails--and I'm hoping it won't--I'll
get after him," and there was a grim look on the young inventor's
face.

It was wearying and nervous work--this waiting. Tom and Ned felt
the strain as they sat there in Mrs. Damon's library, near the
telephone. It had been fitted up in readiness. Attached to the
receiving wires was a sensitive plate, on which Tom hoped would be
imprinted the image of the man at the other end of the wire--the
criminal who, in exchange for the valuable land papers, would give
Mr. Damon his liberty.

There was also the phonograph cylinder to record the man's voice.
Several times, while waiting for the call to come in, Tom got up
to test the apparatus. It was in perfect working order.

As before, there was an extension telephone, so that Mrs. Damon
could talk to the unknown, while Tom could hear as well. But he
planned to take no part in the conversation unless something
unforeseen occurred.

Mr. Damon was an enthusiastic photographer, and he had a dark room
adjoining his library. It was in this dark room that Tom planned
to develop the photo telephone plate.

On this occasion he was not going to use the metal plate in which,
ordinarily, the image of the person talking appeared. That record
was but a fleeting one, as in a mirror. This time Tom wanted a
permanent picture that could, if necessary, be used in a court of
justice.

Tom's plan was this: If the person who had demanded the papers
came to one of the photo telephones, and spoke to Mrs. Damon, Tom
would switch on the receiving apparatus. Thus, while the man was
talking, his picture would be taken, though he would not know of
the thing being done.

His voice would also be recorded on the wax cylinder, and he would
be equally unaware of this.

When Tom had imprinted the fellow's image on the prepared plate,
he would go quickly to the dark room and develop it. A wet print
could be made, and with this as evidence, and to use in
identification, a quick trip could be made to the place whence the
man had telephoned. Tom hoped thus to capture him.

To this end he had his airship in waiting, and as soon as he had
developed the picture he planned to rush off to the vicinity of
the sawmill, and make a prisoner of the man whose features would
be revealed to him over the wire.

It was a hazardous plan--a risky one--but it was the best that he
could evolve. Tom had instructed Mrs. Damon to keep the man in
conversation as long as possible, in order to give the young
inventor himself time to rush off in his airship. But of course
the man might get suspicious and leave. That was another chance
that had to be taken.

"If I had thought of it in time," said Tom, musingly, as he paced
up and down in the library waiting for the 'phone to ring, "if I
had thought of it in time I would have rigged up two plates--one
for a temporary, or looking-glass, picture, and the other for a
permanent one. In that way I could rush off as soon as I got a
glimpse of the fellow. But it's too late to do that now. I'll have
to develop this plate."

Waiting is the most wearisome work there is. Tom and Ned found
this to be the case, as they sat there, hoping each moment that
the telephone bell would ring, and that the man at the other end
of the wire would be the mysterious stranger. Mrs. Damon, too,
felt the nervous strain.

"This is about the hour he called up yesterday," said Tom, in a
low voice, after coming back from a trip to the window to see that
his airship was in readiness. He had brought Koku over to help in
starting it, for he was using his most powerful and speedy craft,
and the propellers were hard to turn.

"Yes," answered Mrs. Damon. "It was just about this hour, Tom. Oh,
I do hope--"

She was interrupted by the jingle of the telephone bell. With a
jump Tom was at the auxiliary instrument, while Mrs. Damon lifted
off the receiver of her own telephone.

"Yes; what is it?" she asked, in a voice that she tried to make
calm.

"Do you know who this is?" Tom heard come over the wire.

"Are you the--er--the person who was to give me an address where I
am to send certain papers?"

"Yes. I'm the same one. I'm glad to see that you have acted
sensibly. If I get the papers all right, you'll soon have your
husband back. Now do as I say. Take down this address."

"Very well," assented Mrs. Damon. She looked over at Tom. He was
intently listening, and he, too, would note the address given. The
trap was about to be sprung. The game had walked into it. Just
which telephone was being used Tom could not as yet tell. It was
evidently not the one nearest the planing mill, for Tom could not
hear the buzzing sound. It was well he had put his attachment on
several instruments.

"One moment, please," said Mrs. Damon, to the unknown at the other
end of the wire. This was in accordance with the pre-arranged
plan.

"Well, what is it?" asked the man, impatiently. "I have no time to
waste."

Tom heard again the same gruff tones, and he tried in vain to
recognize them.

"I want you take down a message to Mr. Damon," said his wife.
"This is very important. It can do you no harm to give him this
message; but I want you to get it exact. If you do not promise to
deliver it I shall call all negotiations off."

"Oh, all right I'll take the message; but be quick about it. Then
I'll give you the address where you are to send the papers."

"This is the message," went on Mrs. Damon. "Please write it down.
It is very important to me. Have you a pencil?"

"Yes, I have one. Wait until I get a bit of paper. It's so dark in
this booth--wait until I turn on the light."

Tom could not repress a pleased and joyful exclamation. It was
just what he had hoped the man would do--turn on the light in the
booth. Indeed, it was necessary for the success of the trap that
the light be switched on. Otherwise no picture could be
transmitted over the wire. And the plan of having the man write
down a message to Mr. Damon was arranged with that end in view.
The man would need a light to see to write, and Tom's apparatus
must be lighted in order to make it work. The plot was coming
along finely.

"There!" exclaimed the man at the other end of the wire. "I have a
light now. Go ahead with your message, Mrs. Damon. But make it
short. I can't stay here long."

Then Mrs. Damon began dictating the message she and Tom had agreed
upon. It was as long as they dared make it, for they wanted to
keep the man in the booth to the last second.

"Dear Husband," began Mrs. Damon. What the message was does not
matter. It has nothing to do with this story. Sufficient to say
that the moment the man began writing it down, as Tom could tell
over the sensitive wire, by the scratching of the pencil--at that
moment Tom, knowing the light was on in the distant telephone
booth, switched on the picture-taking apparatus. His receiving
apparatus at once indicated that the image was being made on the
sensitive plate.

It took only a few seconds of time, and with the plate in the
holder Tom hastened to the dark room to develop it. Ned took his
chum's place at the telephone, to see that all worked smoothly.
The photo telephone had done it's work. Whose image would be found
imprinted on the sensitive plate? Tom's hands trembled so that he
could scarcely put it in the developing solution.





CHAPTER XXII

THE ESCAPE


Ned Newton, listening at the auxiliary telephone heard the man, to
whom Mrs. Damon was dictating her message to her husband, utter an
exclamation of impatience.

"I'm afraid I can't take down any more," he called. "That is
enough. Now you listen. I want you to send me those papers."

"And I am willing to," went on Mrs. Damon, while Ned listened to
the talk, the phonograph faithfully recording it.

"I wonder whose picture Tom will find," mused Ned.

The unknown, at the other end of the wire, began giving Mrs. Damon
a description of just what papers he wanted, and how to mail them
to him. He gave an address that Ned recognized as that of a cigar
store, where many persons received their mail under assumed names.
The postal authorities had, for a long time, tried to get evidence
against it.

"That's going to make it hard to get him, when he comes for the
papers," thought Ned. "He's a foxy criminal, all right. But I
guess Tom will turn the trick."

Mrs. Damon was carefully noting down the address. She really
intended to send the papers, if it proved that there was no other
way in which she could secure the release of her husband. But she
did not count on all of Tom's plans. "Why doesn't he develop that
plate?" thought Ned. "He'll be too late, in spite of his airship.
That fellow will skip."

It was at that moment that Tom came into the library. He moved
cautiously, for he realized that a loud sound in the room would
carry to the man at the other end of the wire. Tom motioned for
Ned to come to him. He held out a dripping photographic plate.

"It's Peters!" said Tom, in a hoarse whisper.

"Peters?" gasped Ned. "How could it be? His voice--"

"I know. It didn't sound a bit like Peters over the 'phone, but
there's his picture, all right!"

Tom held up the plate. There, imprinted on it by the wonderful
power of the young inventor's latest appliance, was the image of
the rascally promoter. As plainly as in life he was shown, even to
his silk hat and the flower in his button-hole. He was in a
telephone booth--that much could be told from the photograph that
had been transmitted over the wire, but which booth could not be
said--they were nearly all alike.

"Peters!" gasped Ned. "I thought he was the fellow, Tom."

"Yes, I know. You were right, and I was wrong. But I did not
recognize his voice. It was very hoarse. He must have a bad cold."
Later this was learned to have been the case. "There's no time to
lose," whispered Tom, while Mrs. Damon was doing her best to
prolong the conversation in order to hold the man at the other end
of the wire. "Ned, get central on the other telephone, and see
where this call came from. Then we'll get there as fast as the
airship will take us."

A second and temporary telephone line had been installed in the
Damon home, and on this Ned was soon talking, while Tom, putting
the photographic plate away for future use, rushed out to get his
airship in shape for a quick flight. He had modified his plans.
Instead of having a detective take a print of the photo telephone
image, and make the arrest, Tom was going to try to capture Peters
himself. He believed he could do it. One look at the wet plate was
enough. He knew Peters, though it upset some of his theories to
learn that it was the promoter who was responsible for Mr. Damon's
disappearance.

The man at the other end of the wire was evidently getting
impatient. Possibly he suspected some trick. "I've got to go now,"
he called to Mrs. Damon. "If I don't get those papers in the
morning it will be the worse for Mr. Damon."

"Oh, I'll send you the papers," she said.

By this time Ned had gotten into communication with the manager of
the central telephone exchange, and had learned the location of
the instrument Peters was using. It was about a mile from the one
near the sawmill.

"Come on!" called Tom to his chum, as the latter gave him this
information. "The Firefly is tuned up for a hundred miles an hour!
We'll be there in ten minutes! We must catch him red-handed, if
possible!"

"He's gone!" gasped Mrs. Damon as she came to the outer door, and
watched Tom and Ned taking their places in the airship, while Koku
prepared to twirl the propellers.

"Gone!" echoed Tom, blankly.

"Yes, he hung up the receiver."

"See if you can't get him back," suggested the young inventor.
"Ask Central to ring that number again. We'll be there in a jiffy.
Maybe he'll come to the telephone again. Or he may even call up
his partners and tell them the game is working his way. Try to get
him back, Mrs. Damon."

"I will," she said.

And, as she hurried back to the instrument, Tom and Ned shot up
toward the blue sky in an endeavor to capture the man at the other
telephone.

"And to think it was Peters!" cried Tom into Ned's ear, shouting
to be heard above the roar of the motor exhaust.

"I thought he'd turn out to be mixed up in the affair," said Ned.

"Well, you were right. I was off, that time," admitted Tom, as he
guided his powerful craft above the trees. "I was willing to admit
that he had something to do with Mr. Damon's financial trouble,
but as for kidnapping him--well, you never can tell."

They drove on at a breath-catching pace, and it seemed hardly a
minute after leaving Mrs. Damon's house before Tom called:

"There's the building where the telephone is located."

"And now for that rascal Peters!" cried Ned.

The airship swooped down, to the great astonishment of some
workmen nearby.

Hardly had the wheels ceased revolving on the ground, as Tom made
a quick landing, than he was out of his seat, and running toward
the telephone. He knew the place at once from having heard Ned's
description, and besides, this was one of the places where he had
installed his apparatus.

Into the store Tom burst, and made a rush for the 'phone booth. He
threw open the door. The place was empty!

"The man--the man who was telephoning!" Tom called to the
proprietor of the place.

"You mean that big man, with the tall hat, who was in there so
long?"

"Yes, where is he?"

"Gone. About two minutes ago."

"Which way?"

"Over toward Shopton, and in one of the fastest autos that ever
scattered dust in this section."

"He's escaped us!" said Tom to Ned. "But we'll get him yet! Come
on!"

"I'm with you. Say, do you know what this looks like to me?"

"What?"

"It looks as if Peters was scared and was going to run away to
stay!"





CHAPTER XXIII

ON THE TRAIL


Such a crowd had quickly gathered about Tom's airship that it was
impossible to start it. Men and boys, and even some girls and
women, coming from no one knew where, stood about the machine,
making wondering remarks about it.

"Stand back, if you please!" cried Tom, good-naturedly. "We've
got to get after the fellow in the auto."

"You'll have hard work catching him, friend, in that rig,"
remarked a man. "He was fracturing all the speed laws ever passed.
I reckon he was going nigh onto sixty miles an hour."

"We can make a hundred," spoke Ned, quietly.

"A hundred! Get out!" cried the man. "Nothing can go as fast as
that!"

"We'll show you, if we once get started," said Tom. "I guess we'll
have to get one of these fellows to twirl the propellers for us,
Ned," he added. "I didn't think, or I'd have brought the self-starting
machine," for this one of Tom's had to be started by someone
turning over the propellers, once or twice, to enable the motor
to begin to speed. On some of his aircraft the young inventor had
attached a starter, something like the ones on the newest autos.

"What are you going to do?" asked Ned, as Tom looked to the
priming of the cylinders.

"I'm going to get on the trail of Peters," he said. "He's at the
bottom of the whole business; and it's a surprise to me. I'm going
to trail him right down to the ground now, and make him give up
Mr. Damon and his fortune."

"But you don't know where he is, Tom."

"I'll find out. He isn't such an easy man to miss--he's too
conspicuous. Besides, if he's just left in his auto we may catch
him before he gets to Shopton."

"Do you think he's going there?"

"I think so. And I think, Ned, that he's become suspicious and
will light out. Something must have happened, while he was
telephoning, and he got frightened, as big a bluff as he is. But
we'll get him. Come on! Will you turn over the propellers, please?
I'll show you how to do it," Tom went on to a big, strong man
standing close to the blades.

"Sure I'll do it," was the answer. "I was a helper once at an
airship meet, and I know how."

"Get back out of the way in time," the young inventor warned him.
"They start very suddenly, sometimes."

"All right, friend, I'll watch out," was the reply, and with Tom
and Ned in their seats, the former at the steering wheel, the
craft of the air was soon throbbing and trembling under the first
turn, for the cylinders were still warm from the run from Mrs.
Damon's house.

The telephone was in an outlying section of Waterford--a section
devoted in the main to shops and factories, and the homes of those
employed in various lines of manufacture. Peters had chosen his
place well, for there were many roads leading to and from this
section, and he could easily make his escape.

"But we'll get after him," thought Tom, grimly, as he let the
airship run down the straight road a short distance on the bicycle
wheels, to give it momentum enough so that it would rise.

Then, with the tilting of the elevation rudder, the craft rose
gracefully, amid admiring cheers from the crowd. Tom did not go up
very far, as he wanted to hover near the ground, to pick out the
speeding auto containing Peters.

But this time luck was not with Tom. He and Ned did sight a number
of cars speeding along the highway toward Shopton, but when they
got near enough to observe the occupants they were disappointed
not to behold the man they sought. Tom circled about for some
time, but it was of no use, and then he headed his craft back
toward Waterford.

"Where are you going?" asked Ned, yelling the words into the ear
of his chum.

"Back to Mrs. Damon's," answered Tom, in equally loud tones.

It was impossible to talk above the roaring and throbbing of the
motor, so the two lads kept silent until the airship had landed
near Mrs. Damon's home.

"I want to see if Mrs. Damon is all right," Tom explained, as he
jumped from the still moving machine. "Then we'll go to Shopton,
and cause Peters's arrest. I can make a charge against him now,
and the evidence of the photo telephone will convict him, I'm
sure. And I also want to see if Mrs. Damon has had any other
word."

She had not, however, though she was more nervous and worried than
ever.

"Oh, Tom, what shall I do?" she exclaimed. "I am so frightened!
What do you suppose they will do to Mr. Damon?"

"Nothing at all!" Tom assured her. "He will be all right. I think
matters are coming to a crisis now, and very likely he'll be with
you inside of twenty-four hours. The game is up, and I guess
Peters knows it. I'm going to have him arrested at once."

"Shall I send those land papers, Tom?"

"Indeed you must not! But I'll talk to you about that later. Just
put away that phonograph record of Peters's talk. I'll take along
the photo telephone negative, and have some prints made--or, I
guess, since we're going in the airship, that I'd better leave it
here for the present. We'll use it as evidence against Peters.
Come on, Ned."

"Where to now?"

"Peters's house. He's probably there, arranging to cover up his
tracks when he lights out."

But Shallock Peters did better than merely cover up his tracks. He
covered himself up, so to speak. For when Ned and Tom, after a
quick flight in the airship, reached his house, the promoter had
left, and the servants, who were quite excited, did not know where
he had gone.

"He just packed up a few clothes and ran out," said one of the
maids. "He didn't say anything about our wages, either, and he
owes me over a month."

"Me too," said another.

"Well, if he doesn't pay me some of my back wages soon, I'll sue
him!" declared the gardener. "He owes me more than three months,
but he kept putting me off."

And, so it seemed, Peters had done with several of his employes.
When the promoter came to Shopton he had taken an elaborate house
and engaged a staff of servants. Peters was not married, but he
gave a number of entertainments to which the wealthy men of
Shopton and their wives came. Later it was found that the bills
for these had never been paid. In short, Peters was a "bluff" in
more ways than one.

Tom told enough of his story to the servants to get them on his
side. Indeed, now that their employer had gone, and under such
queer circumstances, they had no sympathy for him. They were only
concerned about their own money, and Tom was given admittance to
the house.

Tom made a casual search, hoping to find some clue to the
whereabouts of Mr. Damon, or to get some papers that would save
his fortune. But the search was unsuccessful.

There was a safe in the room Peters used for an office, but when
Tom got there the strong box was open, and only some worthless
documents remained.

"He smelled a rat, all right," said Tom, grimly. "After he
telephoned to Mrs. Damon something happened that gave him an
intimation that someone was after him. So he got away as soon as
he could."

"But what are you going to do about it, Tom?"

"Get right after him. He can't have gotten very far. I want him
and I want Boylan. We're getting close to the end of the trail,
Ned."

"Yes, but we haven't found Mr. Damon yet, and his fortune seems to
have vanished."

"Well, we'll do the best we can," said Tom, grimly. "Now I'm going
to get a warrant for the arrest of Peters, and one for Boylan, and
I'm going to get myself appointed a special officer with power to
serve them. We've got our work cut out for us, Ned."

"Well, I'm with you to the end."

"I know you are!" cried Tom.





CHAPTER XXIV

THE LONELY HOUSE


The young inventor had little difficulty in getting the warrants
he sought. In the case of Boylan, who seemed to be Peters's
right-hand man, when it came to criminal work, Tom made a charge of
unlawfully taking the airship. This would be enough to hold the
man on until other evidence could be obtained against him.

As for Peters, he was accused of taking certain valuable bonds and
stocks belonging to Mr. Damon. Mrs. Damon gave the necessary
evidence in this case, and the authorities were told that later,
when Peters should have been arrested, other evidence so
skillfully gotten by Tom's photo telephone, would be brought
before the court.

"It's a new way of convicting a man--by a photo telephone--but I
guess it's a good one," said the judge who signed the warrants.

"Well, now that we've got what we want, the next thing to do is to
get the men--Peters, and the others," said Tom, as he and Ned sat
in Tom's library after several hours of strenuous work.

"How are you going to start?" the young banker wanted to know. "It
seems a strange thing that a man like Mr. Damon could be made away
with, and kept in hiding so long without something being heard of
him. I'm afraid, Tom, that something must have happened to him."

"I think so too, Ned. Nothing serious, though," Tom added,
quickly, as he saw the look of alarm on his chum's face. "I think
Mr. Damon at first went away of his own accord."

"Of his own accord?"

"Yes. I think Peters induced him to go with him, on the pretense
that he could recover his fortune. After getting Mr. Damon in
their power they kept him, probably to get the rest of his fortune
away from him."

"But you stopped that, Tom," said Ned, proud of his chum's
abilities.

"Well, I hope so," admitted the young inventor. "But I've still
got plenty to do."

"Have you a starting point?"

"For one thing," Tom answered, "I'm going to have Mrs. Damon mail
a fake package to the address Peters gave. If he, or any of his
men, call for it, we'll have a detective on the watch, and arrest
them."

"Good!"

"Of course it may not work," spoke Tom; "but it's something to
try, and we can't miss any chances."

Accordingly, the next day, a package containing only blank paper,
made up to represent the documents demanded by Peters as the price
of releasing Mr. Damon, was mailed to the address Mrs. Damon had
received over the wire from the rascally promoter. Then a private
detective was engaged to be on the watch, to take into custody
whoever called for the bundle. Tom, though, had not much hope of
anything coming of this, as it was evident that Peters had taken
the alarm, and left.

"And now," said Tom, when he had safely put away the wax record,
containing the incriminating talk of Peters, and had printed
several photographs, so wonderfully taken over the wire, "now to
get on the trail again."

It was not an easy one to follow. Tom began at the deserted home
of the alleged financier. The establishment was broken up, for
many tradesmen came with bills that had not been paid, and some of
them levied on what little personal property there was to satisfy
their claims. The servants left, sorrowful enough over their
missing wages. The place was closed up under the sheriff's orders.

But of Peters and his men not a trace could be found. Tom and Ned
traveled all over the surrounding country, looking for clues, but
in vain. They made several trips in the airship, but finally
decided that an automobile was more practical for their work, and
kept to that.

They did find some traces of Peters. As Tom had said, the man was
too prominent not to be noticed. He might have disguised himself,
though it seemed that the promoter was a proud man, and liked to
be seen in flashy clothes, a silk hat, and with a buttonhole
bouquet.

This made it easy to get the first trace of him. He had been seen
to take a train at the Shopton station, though he had not bought a
ticket. The promoter had paid his fare to Branchford, a junction
point, but there all trace of him was lost. It was not even
certain that he went there.

"He may have done that to throw us off," said Tom. "Just because
he paid his way to Branchford, doesn't say he went there. He may
have gotten off at the next station beyond Shopton."

"Do you think he's still lingering around here?" asked Ned.

"I shouldn't be surprised," was Tom's answer. "He knows that there
is still some of the Damon property left, and he is probably
hungry for that. We'll get him yet, Ned."

But at the end of several days Tom's hopes did not seem in a fair
way to be realized. He and Ned followed one useless clue after
another. All the trails seemed blind ones. But Tom never gave up.

He was devoting all his time now to the finding of his friend Mr.
Damon, and to the recovery of his fortune. In fact the latter was
not so important to Tom as was the former. For Mrs. Damon was on
the verge of a nervous collapse on account of the absence of her
husband.

"If I could only have some word from him, Tom!" she cried,
helplessly.

To Tom the matter was very puzzling. It seemed utterly impossible
that Mr. Damon could be kept so close a prisoner that he could not
manage to get some word to his friends. It was not as if he was a
child. He was a man of more than ordinary abilities. Surely he
might find a way to outwit his enemies.

But the days passed, and no word came. A number of detectives had
been employed, but they were no more successful than Tom. The
latter had given up his inventive work, for the time being, to
devote all his time to the solution of the mystery.

Tom and Ned had been away from Shopton for three days, following
the most promising clue they had yet received. But it had failed
at the end, and one afternoon they found themselves in a small
town, about a hundred miles from Shopton. They had been motoring.

"I think I'll call up the house," said Tom. "Dad may have received
some news, or Mrs. Damon may have sent him some word. I'll get my
father on the wire."

Connection to Tom's house was soon made, and Ned, who was
listening to his chum's remarks, was startled to hear him cry out:

"What's that you say? My airship taken again? When did it happen?
Yes, I'm listening. Go on, Father!"

Then followed a silence while Tom listened, breaking in now and
then with an excited remark, Suddenly he called:

"Good-by, Dad! I'm coming right home!"

Tom hung up the receiver with a bang, and turned to his chum.

"What do you think!" he cried. "The Eagle was taken again last
night! The same way as before. Nobody got a glimpse of the
thieves, though. Dad has been trying to get in communication with
me ever since. I'm glad I called up. Now we'll get right back to
Shopton, and see what we can do. This is the limit! Peters and his
crowd will be kidnapping us, next."

"That's right," agreed Ned.

He and Tom were soon off again, speeding in the auto toward
Shopton. But the roads were bad, after a heavy rain, and they did
not make fast time.

The coming of dusk found them with more than thirty miles to go.
They were in an almost deserted section of the country when
suddenly, as they were running slowly up a hill, there was a
sudden crack, the auto gave a lurch to one side of the roadway and
then settled heavily. Tom clapped on both brakes quickly, and gave
a cry of dismay.

"Broken front axle!" he said. "We're dished, Ned!"

They got out, being no more harmed than by the jolting. The car
was out of commission. The two chums looked around. Except for a
lonely house, that bore every mark of being deserted, not a
dwelling was in sight where they might ask for aid or shelter.

And, as they looked, from that lonely house came a strange cry--a
cry as though for help!





CHAPTER XXV

THE AIRSHIP CAPTURE


"Did you hear that?" cried Ned.

"I certainly did," answered Tom. "What was it."

"Sounded to me like a cry of some sort."

"It was. An animal, I'd say."

The two chums moved away from the broken auto, and looked at each
other. Then, by a common impulse, they started toward the lonely
house, which was set back some distance from the road.

"Let's see who it was," suggested Tom, "After all, though it looks
deserted, there may be someone in the house, and we've got to have
some kind of help. I don't want to leave my car on the road all
night, though it will have to be repaired before I can use it
again."

"It sure is a bad break," agreed Ned.

As they walked toward the deserted House they heard the strange
cry again. It was louder this time, and following it the boys
heard a sound as if a blow had been struck.

"Someone is being attacked!" cried Tom. "Maybe some poor tramp has
taken shelter in there and a dog is after them. Come on, Ned,
we've got to help!"

They started on a run for the lonely house, but while still some
distance away a curious thing happened.

There was a sudden cry--an appeal for help it seemed--but this
time in the open. And, as Tom and Ned looked, they saw several men
running from the rear of the old house. Between them they carried
an inert form.

"Something's wrong!" exclaimed Tom, "There's crooked work going on
here, Ned."

"You're right! It's up to us to stop it! Come on!"

But before the boys had taken half a dozen more steps they heard
that which caused them great surprise. For from a shed behind the
house came the unmistakable throb and roar of a motor.

"They're going off in an auto!" cried Ned.

"And they're carrying someone with them!" exclaimed Tom.

By this time they had gotten to a point where they could see the
shed, and what was their astonishment to see being rolled from it
a big biplane. At the sight of it Tom cried:

"It's the Eagle! That's my airship, Ned!"

"You're right! How did it get here?"

"That's for us to find out. I shouldn't wonder, Ned, but what
we're at last on the trail of Peters and his crowd!"

The men--there were four or five of them, Ned guessed--now broke
into a run, still carrying among them the inert form of another.
The cries for help had ceased, and it seemed as if the unfortunate
one was unconscious.

A moment later, and before the boys could do anything, had they
the power, the men fairly jumped aboard Tom Swift's biggest
airship. The unconscious one was carried with them.

Then the motor was speeded up. The roar and throbbing were almost
deafening.

"Stop that! Hold on! That's my machine!" yelled Tom.

He might as well have spoken to the wind. With a rush and a roar
the big Eagle shot away and upward, carrying the men and their
mysterious, unconscious companion. It was getting too dark for Tom
and Ned to make out the forms or features of the strangers.

"We're too late!" said Ned, hopelessly.

"Yes, they got away," agreed Tom. "Oh, if only I had my speedy
little monoplane!"

"But who can they be? How did your airship get here? And who is
that man they carried out of the house?" cried Ned.

"I don't know the last--maybe one of their crowd who was injured
in a fight."

"What crowd?"

"The Peters gang, of course. Can't you see it, Ned?"

Unable to do anything, the two youths watched the flight of the
Eagle. She did not move at her usual speed, for she was carrying
too heavy a load.

Presently from the air overhead, and slightly behind them, the
boys heard the sound of another motor. They turned quickly.

"Look!" cried Ned. "Another airship, by all that's wonderful!"

"If we could only stop them!" exclaimed Tom. "That's a big
machine, and they could take us aboard. Then we could chase the
Eagle. We could catch her, too, for she's overloaded!"

Frantically he and Tom waved their caps at the man who was now
almost overhead in his airship. The boys did not call. They well
knew, with the noise of the motor, the occupant of the airship
could not hear them. But they waved and pointed to the slowly-moving
Eagle.

To their surprise and delight the man above them shut off his
engine, and seemed about to come down. Then Tom cried, knowing he
could be heard:

"Help us capture that airship? It's mine and they've stolen it!"

"All right! Be with you in a minute!" came back the answer from
above.

The second biplane came down to earth, and as it ceased running
along on its bicycle wheels, the occupant jumped out.

"Hello, Tom Swift!" he called, as he took off his goggles.

"Why--why it's Mr. Halling!" cried the young inventor, in delight,
recognizing the birdman who had brought him the first news of Mr.
Damon's trouble, the day the airship became entangled in the
aerials of the wireless on Tom's house.

"What are you doing here, Tom?" asked Mr. Hailing. "What has
happened?"

"We're looking for Mr. Damon. That's a bad crowd there," and he
pointed toward the other aircraft. "They have my Eagle. Can you
help me catch them?"

"I certainly can--and will! Get aboard! I can carry four."

"Then you have a new machine?"

"Yes, and a dandy! All the latest improvements--self-starter and
all! I'm glad of a chance to show it to you."

"And I'm glad, too!" cried Tom. "It was providential that you
happened along. What were you doing here?"

"Just out on a trial spin. But come on, if we're going to catch
those fellows!"

Quickly Tom, Ned, and Mr. Halling climbed into the seats of the
new airship. It was started from a switch, and in a few seconds it
was on the wing, chasing after the Eagle.

Then began a strange race, a race in the air after the unknown
strangers who had Tom's machine. Had the Eagle not been so heavily
laden it might have escaped, for Tom's craft was a speedy one. But
this time it had to give the palm to Mr. Grant Halling's. Faster
and faster in pursuit flew the Star, as the new craft was called.
Faster and faster, until at last, coming directly over the Eagle,
Mr. Halling sent his craft down in such a manner as to "blanket"
the other. In an instant she began to sink, and with cries of
alarm the men shut off the motor and started to volplane to the
earth.

But they made an unskillful landing. The Eagle tilted to one side,
and came down with a crash. There were cries of pain, then
silence, and a few seconds later two men ran away from the
disabled airship. But there were three senseless forms on the
ground beside the craft when Tom, Ned and Mr. Halling ran up. In
the fading light Tom saw a face he knew--three faces in fact.

"Mr. Damon!" he cried. "We've found him, Ned!"

"But--too late--maybe!" answered Ned, in a low voice, as he, too,
recognized the man who had been missing so long.

Mr. Halling was bending over the unconscious form of his friend.

"He's alive!" he cried, joyfully. "And not much hurt, either. But
he has been ill, and looks half starved. Who are these men?"

Tom gave a hasty look.

"Shallock Peters and Harrison Boylan!" he cried. "Ned, at last
we've caught the scoundrels!"

It was true. Chance had played into the hands of Tom Swift. While
Mr. Halling was looking after Mr. Damon, reviving him, the young
inventor and Ned quickly bound the hands and feet of the two
plotters with pieces of wire from the broken airship.

Presently Mr. Damon opened his eyes.

"Where am I? What happened? Oh, bless my watch chain--it's Tom
Swift! Bless my cigar case, I--"

"He's all right!" cried Tom, joyfully. "When Mr. Damon blesses
something beside his tombstone he's all right."

Peters and Boylan soon revived, both being merely stunned, as was
Mr. Damon. They looked about in wonder, and then, feeling that
they were prisoners, resigned themselves to their fate. Both men
were shabbily dressed, and Tom would hardly have known the once
spick and span Mr. Peters. He had no rose in his buttonhole now.

"Well, you have me, I see," he said, coolly. "I was afraid we were
playing for too high a stake."

"Yes, we've got you," replied Tom,

"But you can't prove much against me," went on Peters. "I'll deny
everything."

"We'll see about that," added the young inventor, grimly, and
thought of the picture in the plate and the record on the wax
cylinder.

"We've got to get Mr. Damon to some place where he can be looked
after," broke in Mr. Halling. "Then we'll hear the story."

A passing farmer was prevailed on to take the party in his big
wagon to the nearest town, Mr. Hailing going on ahead in his
airship. Tom's craft could not be moved, being badly damaged.

Once in town Peters and Boylan were put in jail, on the charges
for which Tom carried warrants. Mr. Damon was taken to a hotel and
a doctor summoned. It was as Mr. Halling had guessed. His friend
had been ill, and so weak that he could not get out of bed. It was
this that enabled the plotters to so easily keep him a prisoner.

By degrees Mr. Damon told his story. He had rashly allowed Peters
to get control of most of his fortune, and, in a vain hope of
getting back some of his losses, had, one night--the night he
disappeared, in fact--agreed to meet Peters and some of his men to
talk matters over. Of this Mr. Damon said nothing to his wife.

He went out that night to meet Peters in the garden, but the
plotters had changed their plans. They boldly kidnapped their
victim, chloroformed him and took him away in Tom's airship, which
Boylan and some of his tools daringly stole a short time
previously. Later they returned it, as they had no use for it at
the lonely house.

Mr. Damon was taken to the house, and there kept a prisoner. The
men hoped to prevail on the fears of his wife to make her give up
the valuable property. But we have seen how Tom foiled Peters.

The experience of Mr. Damon, coupled with rough treatment he
received, and lack of good food, soon made him ill. He was so weak
that he could not help himself, and with that he was kept under
guard. So he had no chance to escape or send his wife or friends
any word.

"But I'm all right now, Tom, thanks to you!" said he. "Bless my
pocketbook, I don't care if my fortune is lost, as long as I'm
alive and can get back to my wife."

"But I don't believe your fortune will be lost," said Tom. "I
think I have the picture and other evidence that will save it,"
and he told of his photo telephone, and of what it had accomplished.

"Bless my eyelashes!" cried Mr. Damon. "What a young man you are,
Tom Swift!"

Tom smiled gladly. He knew now that his old friend was himself
once more.

There is little left to tell. Chance had aided Tom in a most
wonderful way--chance and the presence of Mr. Halling with his
airship at just the right moment.

Tom made a diligent effort to find out who it was that had
chloroformed him in the telephone booth that time, but learned
nothing definite. Peters and Boylan were both examined as to this
on their trials, but denied it, and the young inventor was forced
to conclude that it must have been some of the unscrupulous men
who had taken his father's patent some time before.

"They may have heard of your prosperity, and thought it a good
chance to rob you," suggested Ned.

"Maybe," agreed Tom. "Well, we'll let it go at that. Only I hope
they don't come again."

Mr. Damon was soon home with his wife again, and Peters and Boylan
were held in heavy bail. They had secreted most of Mr. Damon's
wealth, falsely telling him it was lost, and they were forced to
give back his fortune. The evidence against them was clear and
conclusive. When Tom went into court with his phonograph record of
the talk of Peters, even though the man's voice was hoarse from a
cold when he talked, and when his picture was shown, in the
telephone booth, the jury at once convicted him.

Boylan, when he learned of the missing button in Tom's possession,
confessed that he and some of his men who were birdmen had taken
Tom's airship. They wanted a means of getting Mr. Damon to the
lonely house without being traced, and they accomplished it.

As Tom had surmised, Peters had become suspicious after his last
talk with Mrs. Damon, and had fled. He disguised himself and went
into hiding with the others at the lonely house. Then he learned
that the authorities of another city, where he had swindled many,
were on his trail, and he decided to decamp with his gang, taking
Mr. Damon with them. For this purpose Tom's airship was taken the
second time, and a wholesale escape, with Mr. Damon a prisoner,
was planned.

But fate was against the plotters. Two of them did manage to get
away, but they were not really wanted. The big fish were Peters
and Boylan, and they were securely caught in the net of the law.
Peters was greatly surprised when he learned of Tom's trap, and of
the photo telephone. He had no idea he had been incriminating
himself when he talked over the wire.

"Well, it's all over," remarked Ned to Tom, one day, when the
disabled auto and the airship had been brought home and repaired.
"The plotters are in prison for long terms, and Mr. Damon is
found, together with his fortune. The photo telephone did it,
Tom."

"Not all of it--but a good bit," admitted the young inventor, with
a smile.

"What are you going to do next, Tom?"

"I hardly know. I think--"

Before Tom could finish, a voice was heard in the hall outside the
library.

"Bless my overshoes! Where's Tom? I want to thank him again for
what he did for me," and Mr. Damon, now fully recovered, came in.
"Bless my suspender button, but it's good to be alive, Tom!" he
cried.

"It certainly is," agreed Tom. "And the next time you go for a
conference with such men as Peters, look out for airships."

"I will, Tom, I will!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Bless my watch chain,
I will!"

And now, for a time, we will say good-bye to Tom Swift, leaving
him to perfect his other inventions.

End 




TOM SWIFT AND HIS AERIAL WARSHIP

or

The Naval Terror of the Seas


BY

VICTOR APPLETON




CONTENTS

CHAPTER

     I  TOM IS PUZZLED
    II  A FIRE ALARM
   III  A DESPERATE BATTLE
    IV  SUSPICIONS
     V  A QUEER STRANGER
    VI  THE AERIAL WARSHIP
   VII  WARNINGS
  VIII  A SUSPECTED PLOT
    IX  THE RECOIL CHECK
     X  THE NEW MEN
    XI  A DAY OFF
   XII  A NIGHT ALARM
  XIII  THE CAPTURE
   XIV  THE FIRST FLIGHT
    XV  IN DANGER
   XVI  TOM IS WORRIED
  XVII  AN OCEAN FLIGHT
 XVIII  IN A STORM
   XIX  QUEER HAPPENINGS
    XX  THE STOWAWAYS
   XXI  PRISONERS
  XXII  APPREHENSIONS
 XXIII  ACROSS THE SEA
  XXIV  THE LIGHTNING BOLT
   XXV  FREEDOM




TOM SWIFT AND HIS AERIAL WARSHIP




CHAPTER I

TOM IS PUZZLED


"What's the matter, Tom? You look rather blue!"

"Blue! Say, Ned, I'd turn red, green, yellow, or any other color of the
rainbow, if I thought it would help matters any."

"Whew!"

Ned Newton, the chum and companion of Tom Swift, gave vent to a whistle
of surprise, as he gazed at the young fellow sitting opposite him, near
a bench covered with strange-looking tools and machinery, while
blueprints and drawings were scattered about.

Ranged on the sides of the room were models of many queer craft, most
of them flying machines of one sort or another, while through the open
door that led into a large shed could be seen the outlines of a speedy
monoplane.

"As bad as that, eh, Tom?" went on Ned. "I thought something was up
when I first came in, but, if you'll excuse a second mention of the
color scheme, I should say it was blue--decidedly blue. You look as
though you had lost your last friend, and I want to assure you that if
you do feel that way, it's dead wrong.  There's myself, for one, and
I'm sure Mr. Damon--"

"Bless my gasoline tank!" exclaimed Tom, with a laugh, in imitation of
the gentleman Ned Newton had mentioned, "I know that! I'm not worrying
over the loss of any friends."

"And there are Eradicate, and Koku, the giant, just to mention a couple
of others," went on Ned, with a smile.

"That's enough!" exclaimed Tom. "It isn't that, I tell you."

"Well, what is it then? Here I go and get a half-holiday off from the
bank, and just at the busiest time, too, to come and see you, and I
find you in a brown study, looking as blue as indigo, and maybe you're
all yellow inside from a bilious attack, for all I know."

"Quite a combination of colors," admitted Tom. "But it isn't what you
think. It's just that I'm puzzled, Ned."

"Puzzled?" and Ned raised his eyebrows to indicate how surprised he was
that anything should puzzle his friend.

"Yes, genuinely puzzled."

"Has anything gone wrong?" Ned asked. "No one is trying to take any of
your pet inventions away from you, is there?"

"No, not exactly that, though it is about one of my inventions I am
puzzled. I guess I haven't shown you my very latest; have I, Ned?"

"Well, I don't know, Tom. Time was when I could keep track of you and
your inventions, but that was in your early days, when you started with
a motorcycle and were glad enough to have a motorboat. But, since
you've taken to aerial navigation and submarine work, not to mention
one or two other lines of activity, I give up. I don't know where to
look next, Tom, for something new."

"Well, this isn't so very new," went on the young inventor, for Tom
Swift had designed and patented many new machines of the air, earth and
water. "I'm just trying to work out some new problems in aerial
navigation, Ned," he went on.

"I thought there weren't any more," spoke Ned, soberly enough.

"Come, now, none of that!" exclaimed Tom, with a laugh. "Why, the
surface of aerial navigation has only been scratched. The science is
far from being understood, or even made safe, not to say perfected, as
water and land travel have been. There's lots of chance yet."

"And you're working on something new?" asked Ned, as he looked around
the shop where he and Tom were sitting. As the young bank employee had
said, he had come away from the institution that afternoon to have a
little holiday with his chum, but Tom, seated in the midst of his
inventions, seemed little inclined to jollity.

Through the open windows came the hum of distant machinery, for Tom
Swift and his father were the heads of a company founded to manufacture
and market their many inventions, and about their home were grouped
several buildings. From a small plant the business had grown to be a
great tree, under the direction of Tom and his father.

"Yes, I'm working on something new," admitted Tom, after a moment of
silence.

"And, Ned," he went on, "there's no reason why you shouldn't see it.
I've been keeping it a bit secret, until I had it a little further
advanced, but I've got to a point now where I'm stuck, and perhaps it
will do me good to talk to someone about it."

"Not to talk to me, though, I'm afraid. What I don't know about
machinery, Tom, would fill a great many books. I don't see how I can
help you," and Ned laughed.

"Well, perhaps you can, just the same, though you may not know a lot of
technical things about machines. It sometimes helps me just to tell my
troubles to a disinterested person, and hear him ask questions. I've
got dad half distracted trying to solve the problem, so I've had to let
up on him for a while. Come on out and see what you make of it."

"Sure, Tom, anything to oblige. If you want me to sit in front of your
photo-telephone, and have my picture taken, I'm agreeable, even if you
shoot off a flashlight at my ear. Or, if you want me to see how long I
can stay under water without breathing I'll try that, too, provided you
don't leave me under too long, lead the way--I'm agreeable as far as
I'm able, old man."

"Oh, it isn't anything like that," Tom answered with a laugh.  "I might
as well give you a few hints, so you'll know what I'm driving at. Then
I'll take you out and show it to you."

"What is it--air, earth or water?" asked Ned Newton, for he knew his
chum's activities led along all three lines.

"This happens to be air."

"A new balloon?"

"Something like that. I call it my aerial warship, though."

"Aerial warship, Tom!  That sounds rather dangerous!"

"It will be dangerous, too, if I can get it to work. That's what it's
intended for."

"But a warship of the air!" cried Ned. "You can't mean it. A warship
carries guns, mortars, bombs, and--"

"Yes, I know," interrupted Tom, "and I appreciate all that when I
called my newest craft an aerial warship."

"But," objected Ned, "an aircraft that will carry big guns will be so
large that--"

"Oh, mine is large enough," Tom broke in.

"Then it's finished!" cried Ned eagerly, for he was much interested in
his chum's inventions.

"Well, not exactly," Tom said. "But what I was going to tell you was
that all guns are not necessarily large. You can get big results with
small guns and projectiles now, for high-powered explosives come in
small packages. So it isn't altogether a question of carrying a certain
amount of weight. Of course, an aerial warship will have to be big, for
it will have to carry extra machinery to give it extra speed, and it
will have to carry a certain armament, and a large crew will be needed.
So, as I said, it will need to be large. But that problem isn't
worrying me."

"Well, what is it, then?" asked Ned.

"It's the recoil," said Tom, with a gesture of despair.

"The recoil?" questioned Ned, wonderingly.

"Yes, from the guns, you know. I haven't been able to overcome that,
and, until I do, I'm afraid my latest invention will be a failure."

Ned shook his head.

"I'm afraid I can't help you any," he said. "The only thing I know
about recoils is connected with an old shotgun my father used to own.

"I took that once, when he didn't know it," Ned proceeded. "It was
pretty heavily loaded, for the crows had been having fun in our
cornfield, and dad had been shooting at them. This time I thought I'd
take a chance.

"Well, I fired the gun. But it must have had a double charge in it and
been rusted at that. All I know is that after I pulled the trigger I
thought the end of the world had come. I heard a clap of thunder, and
then I went flying over backward into a blackberry patch."

"That was the recoil," said Tom.

"The what?" asked Ned.

"The recoil. The recoil of the gun knocked you over."

"Oh, yes," observed Ned, rubbing his shoulder in a reflective sort of
way. "I always thought it was something like that. But, at the time I
put it down to an explosion, and let it go at that."

"No, it wasn't an explosion, properly speaking," said Tom. "You see,
when powder explodes, in a gun, or otherwise, its force is exerted in
all directions, up, down and every way."

"This went mostly backward--in my direction," said Ned ruefully.

"You only thought so," returned Tom. "Most of the power went out in
front, to force out the shot. Part of it, of course, was exerted on the
barrel of the gun--that was sideways--but the strength of the steel
held it in. And part of the force went backward against your shoulder.
That part was the recoil, and it is the recoil of the guns I figure on
putting aboard my aerial warship that is giving me such trouble."

"Is that what makes you look so blue?" asked Ned.

"That's it. I can't seem to find a way by which to take up the recoil,
and the force of it, from all the guns I want to carry, will just about
tear my ship to pieces, I figure."

"Then you haven't actually tried it out yet?" asked Ned.

"Not the guns, no. I have the warship of the air nearly done, but I've
worked out on paper the problem of the guns far enough so that I know
I'm up against it. It can't be done, and an aerial warship without guns
wouldn't be worth much, I'm afraid."

"I suppose not," agreed Ned. "And is it only the recoil that is
bothering you?"

"Mostly. But come, take a look at my latest pet," and Tom arose to lead
the way to another shed, a large one in the distance, toward which he
waved his hand to indicate to his chum that there was housed the
wonderful invention.

The two chums crossed the yard, threading their way through the various
buildings, until they stood in front of the structure to which Tom had
called attention.

"It's in here," he said. "I don't mind admitting that I'm quite proud
of it, Ned; that is, proud as far as I've gone. But the gun business
sure has me worried. I'm going to talk it off on you.  Hello!" cried
Tom suddenly, as he put a key in the complicated lock on the door,
"someone has been in here. I wonder who it is?"

Ned was a little startled at the look on Tom's face and the sound of
alarm in his chum's voice.




CHAPTER II

A FIRE ALARM


Tom Swift quickly opened the door of the big shed. It was built to
house a dirigible balloon, or airship of some sort. Ned could easily
tell that from his knowledge of Tom's previous inventions.

"Something wrong?" asked the young bank clerk.

"I don't know," returned Tom, and then as he looked inside the place,
he breathed a sigh of relief.

"Oh, it's you, is it, Koku?" he asked, as a veritable giant of a man
came forward.

"Yes, master, it is only Koku and your father," spoke the big chap,
with rather a strange accent.

"Oh, is my father here?" asked Tom. "I was wondering who had opened the
door of this shed."

"Yes, Tom," responded the elder Swift, coming up to them, "I had a new
idea in regard to some of those side guy wires, and I wanted to try it
out. I brought Koku with me to use his strength on some of them."

"That's all right, Dad. Ned and I came out to wrestle with that recoil
problem again. I want to try some guns on the craft soon, but--"

"You'd better not, Tom," warned his father. "It will never work, I tell
you. You can't expect to take up quick-firing guns and bombs in an
airship, and have them work properly. Better give it up."

"I never will. I'll make it work, Dad!"

"I don't believe you will, Tom. This time you have bitten off more than
you can chew, to use a homely but expressive statement."

"Well, Dad, we'll see," began Tom easily. "There she is, Ned," he went
on. "Now, if you'll come around here..."

But Tom never finished that sentence, for at that moment there came
running into the airship shed an elderly, short, stout, fussy
gentleman, followed by an aged colored man. Both of them seemed very
much excited.

"Bless my socks, Tom!" cried the short, stout man. "There sure is
trouble!"

"I should say So, Massa Tom!" added the colored man. "I done did
prognosticate dat some day de combustible material of which dat shed am
composed would conflaggrate--"

"What's the matter?" interrupted Tom, jumping forward. "Speak out!
Eradicate!  Mr. Damon, what is it?"

"The red shed!" cried the short little man. "The red shed, Tom!"

"It's on fire!" yelled the colored man.

"Great thunderclaps!" cried Tom. "Come on--everybody on the job!" he
yelled. "Koku, pull the alarm! If that red shed goes--"

Instantly the place was in confusion. Tom and Ned, looking from a
window of the hangar, saw a billow of black smoke roll across the yard.
But already the private fire bell was clanging out its warning. And,
while the work of fighting the flames is under way, I will halt the
progress of this story long enough to give my new readers a little idea
of who Tom Swift is, so they may read this book more intelligently.
Those of you who have perused the previous volumes may skip this part.

Tom Swift, though rather young in years, was an inventor of note. His
tastes and talents were developed along the line of machinery and
locomotion. Motorcycles, automobiles, motorboats, submarine craft, and,
latest of all, craft of the air, had occupied the attention of Tom
Swift and his father for some years.

Mr. Swift was a widower, and lived with Tom, his only son, in the
village of Shopton, New York State. Mrs. Baggert kept house for them,
and an aged colored man, Eradicate Sampson, with his mule, Boomerang,
did "odd jobs" about the Shopton home and factories.

Among Tom's friends was a Mr. Wakefield Damon, from a nearby village.
Mr. Damon was always blessing something, from his hat to his shoes, a
harmless sort of habit that seemed to afford him much comfort. Then
there was Ned Newton, a boyhood chum of Tom's, who worked in the
Shopton bank. I will just mention Mary Nestor, a young lady of Shopton,
in whom Tom was more than ordinarily interested. I have spoken of Koku,
the giant. He really was a giant of a man, of enormous strength, and
was one of two whom Tom had brought with him from a strange land where
Tom was held captive for a time. You may read about it in a book
devoted to those adventures.

Tom took Koku into his service, somewhat to the dismay of Eradicate,
who was desperately jealous. But poor Eradicate was getting old, and
could not do as much as he thought he could. So, in a great measure,
Koku replaced him, and Tom found much use for the giant's strength.

Tom had begun his inventive work when, some years before this story
opens, he had bargained for Mr. Damon's motorcycle, after that machine
had shot its owner into a tree. Mr. Damon was, naturally, perhaps, much
disgusted, and sold the affair cheap.  Tom repaired it, made some
improvements, and, in the first volume of this series, entitled "Tom
Swift and His Motor-cycle," you may read of his rather thrilling
adventures on his speedy road-steed.

From then on Tom had passed a busy life, making many machines and
having some thrilling times with them. Just previous to the opening of
this story Tom had made a peculiar instrument, described in the volume
entitled "Tom Swift and His Photo-Telephone." With that a person
talking could not only see the features of the person with whom he was
conversing, but, by means of a selenium plate and a sort of camera, a
permanent picture could be taken of the person at either end of the
wire.

By means of this invention Tom had been able to make a picture that had
saved a fortune. But Tom did not stop there. With him to invent was as
natural and necessary as breathing. He simply could not stop it. And so
we find him now about to show to his chum, Ned Newton, his latest
patent, an aerial warship, which, however, was not the success Tom had
hoped for.

But just at present other matters than the warship were in Tom's mind.
The red shed was on fire.

That mere statement might not mean anything special to the ordinary
person, but to Tom, his father, and those who knew about his shops, it
meant much.

"The red shed!" Tom cried. "We mustn't let that get the best of us!
Everybody at work! Father, not you, though. You mustn't excite
yourself!"

Even in the midst of the alarm Tom thought of his father, for the aged
man had a weak heart, and had on one occasion nearly expired, being
saved just in time by the arrival of a doctor, whom Tom brought to the
scene after a wonderful race through the air.

"But, Tom, I can help," objected the aged inventor.

"Now, you just take care of yourself, Father!" Tom cried.  "There are
enough of us to look after this fire, I think."

"But, Tom, it--it's the red shed!" gasped Mr. Swift.

"I realize that, Dad. But it can't have much of a start yet. Is the
alarm ringing, Koku?"

"Yes, Master," replied the giant, in correct but stilted English. "I
have set the indicator to signal the alarm in every shop on the
premises."

"That's right." Tom sprang toward the door. "Eradicate!" he called.

"Yais, sah! Heah I is!" answered the colored man. "I'll go git mah
mule, Boomerang, right away, an' he--"

"Don't you bring Boomerang on the scene!" Tom yelled. "When I want that
shed kicked apart I can do it better than by using a mule's heels. And
you know you can't do a thing with Boomerang when he sees fire."

"Now dat's so, Massa Tom. But I could put blinkers on him, an'--"

"No, you let Boomerang stay where he is. Come on, Ned. We'll see what
we can do. Mr. Damon--"

"Yes, Tom, I'm right here," answered the peculiar man, for he had come
over from his home in Waterford to pay a visit to his friends, Tom and
Mr. Swift. "I'll do anything I can to help you, Tom, bless my necktie!"
he went on. "Only say the word!"

"We've got to get some of the stuff out of the place!" Tom cried. "We
may be able to save it, but I can't take a chance on putting out the
fire and letting some of the things in there go up in smoke. Come on!"

Those in the shed where was housed what Tom hoped would prove to be a
successful aerial warship rushed to the open. From the other shops and
buildings nearby were pouring men and boys, for the Swift plant
employed a number of hands now.

Above the shouts and yells, above the crackle of flames, could be heard
the clanging of the alarm bell, set ringing by Koku, who had pulled the
signal in the airship shed. From there it had gone to every building in
the plant, being relayed by the telephone operator, whose duty it was
to look after that.

"My, you've got a big enough fire-fighting force, Tom!" cried Ned in
his chum's ear.

"Yes, I guess we can master it, if it hasn't gotten the best of us.
Say, it's going some, though!"

Tom pointed to where a shed, painted red--a sign of danger--could be
seen partly enveloped in smoke, amid the black clouds of which shot out
red tongues of flame.

"What have you got it painted red for?" Ned asked pantingly, as they
ran on.

"Because--" Tom began, but the rest of the sentence was lost in a yell.

Tom had caught sight of Eradicate and the giant, Koku, unreeling from a
central standpipe a long line of hose.

"Don't take that!" Tom cried. "Don't use that hose! Drop it!"

"What's the matter? Is it rotten?" Ned wanted to know.

"No, but if they pull it out the water will be turned on automatically."

"Well, isn't that what you want at a fire--water?" Ned demanded.

"Not at this fire," was Tom's answer. "There's a lot of calcium carbide
in that red shed--that's why it's red--to warn the men of danger. You
know what happens when water gets on carbide--there's an explosion, and
there's enough carbide in that shed to send the whole works sky high.

"Drop that hose!" yelled Tom in louder tones. "Drop it, Rad--Koku!  Do
you want to kill us all!"




CHAPTER III

A DESPERATE BATTLE


Tom's tones and voice were so insistent that the giant and the colored
man had no choice but to obey. They dropped the hose which, half
unreeled, lay like some twisted snake in the grass.  Had it been pulled
out all the way the water would have spurted from the nozzle, for it
was of the automatic variety, with which Tom had equipped all his plant.

"But what are you going to do, Tom, if you don't use water?" asked Ned,
wonderingly.

"I don't know--yet, but I know water is the worst thing you can put on
carbide," returned Tom. For all he spoke Slowly his brain was working
fast. Already, even now, he was planning how best to give battle to the
flames.

It needed but an instant's thought on the part of Ned to make him
understand that Tom was right. It would be well-nigh fatal to use water
on carbide. Those of you who have bicycle lanterns, in which that not
very pleasant-smelling chemical is used, know that if a few drops of
water are allowed to drip slowly on the gray crystals acetylene gas is
generated, which makes a brilliant light. But, if the water drips too
fast, the gas is generated too quickly, and an explosion results. In
lamps, of course, and in lighting plants where carbide is used, there
are automatic arrangements to prevent the water flowing too freely to
the chemical. But Tom knew if the hose were turned on the fire in the
red shed a great explosion would result, for some of the tins of
carbide would be melted by the heat.

Yet the fire needed to be coped with. Already the flames were coming
through the roof, and the windows and door were spouting red fire and
volumes of smoke.

Several other employees of Tom's plant had made ready to unreel more
hose, but the warning of the young inventor, shouted to Eradicate and
Koku, had had its effect. Every man dropped the line he had begun to
unreel.

"Ha!  Massa Tom say drop de hose, but how yo' gwine t' squirt watah on
a fire wifout a hose; answer me dat?" and Eradicate looked at Koku.

"Me no know," was the slow answer. "I guess Koku go pull shed down and
stamp out fire."

"Huh!  Maybe yo' could do dat in cannibal land, where yo' all come
from," spoke Eradicate, "but yo' can't do dat heah! 'Sides, de red shed
will blow up soon. Dere's suffin' else in dere except carbide, an'
dat's gwine t' go up soon, dat's suah!"

"Maybe you get your strong man-mule, Boomerang," suggested Koku.
"Nothing ever hurt him--explosion or nothing. He can kick shed all to
pieces, and put out fire."

"Dat's what I wanted t' do, but Massa Tom say I cain't," explained the
colored man. "Golly! Look at dat fire!"

Indeed the blaze was now assuming alarming proportions. The red shed,
which was not a small structure, was blazing on all sides.  About it
stood the men from the various shops.

"Tom, you must do something," said Mr. Swift. "If the flames once reach
that helmanite--"

"I know, Father. But that explosive is in double vacuum containers, and
it will be safe for some time yet. Besides, it's in the cellar. It's
the carbide I'm most worried about. We daren't use water."

"But something will have to be done!" exclaimed Mr. Damon.  "Bless my
red necktie, if we don't--"

"Better get back a way," suggested Tom. "Something may go off!"

His words of warning had their effect, and the whole circle moved back
several paces.

"Is there anything of value in the shed?" asked Ned.

"I should say there was!" Tom answered. "I hoped we could get some of
them out, but we can't now--until the fire dies down a bit, at any
rate."

"Look, Tom! The pattern shop roof is catching!" shouted Mr. Swift,
pointing to where a little spurt of flame showed on the roof of a
distant building.

"It's from sparks!" Tom said.

"Any danger of using water there?" Ned wanted to know.

"No, use all you like! That's the only thing to do. Come on, you with
the hose!" Tom yelled. "Save the other buildings!"

"But are you going to let the red shed burn?" asked Mr. Swift.  "You
know what it means, Tom."

"Yes, Father, I know. And I'm going to fight that fire in a new way.
But we must save the other buildings, too. Play water on all the other
sheds and structures!" ordered the young inventor.  "I'll tackle this
one myself. Oh, Ned!" he called.

"Yes," answered his chum. "What is it?"

"You take charge of protecting the place where the new aerial warship
is stored. Will you? I can't afford to lose that."

"I'll look after it, Tom. No harm in using water there, though; is
there?"

"Not if you don't use too much. Some of the woodwork isn't varnished
yet, and I wouldn't want it to be wet. But do the best you can. Take
Koku and Eradicate with you. They can't do any good here."

"Do you mean to say you're going to give up and let this burn?"

"Not a bit of it, Ned. But I have another plan I want to try.  Lively
now! The wind's changing, and it's blowing over toward my aerial
warship shed. If that catches--"

Tom shook his head protestingly, and Ned set off on the run, calling to
the colored man and the giant to get out another line of hose.

"I wonder what Tom is going to do?" mused Ned, as he neared the big
shed he and the others had left on the alarm of fire.

Tom, himself, seemed in no doubt as to his procedure.  With one look at
the blazing red shed, as if to form an opinion as to how much longer it
could burn without getting entirely beyond control, Tom set off on a
run toward another large structure.  Ned, glancing toward his chum,
observed:

"The dirigible shed! I wonder what his game is?  Surely that can't be
in danger--it's too far off!"

Ned was right as to the last statement. The shed, where was housed a
great dirigible balloon Tom had made, but which he seldom used of late,
was sufficiently removed from the zone of fire to be out of danger.

Meanwhile several members of the fire-fighting force that had been
summoned from the various shops by the alarm, had made an effort to
save from the red shed some of the more valuable of the contents. There
were some machines in there, as well as explosives and chemicals, in
addition to the store of carbide.

But the fire was now too hot to enable much to be done in the way of
salvage. One or two small things were carried out from a little
addition to the main structure, and then the rescuers were driven back
by the heat of the flames, as well as by the rolling clouds of black
smoke.

"Keep away!" warned Mr. Swift. "It will explode soon. Keep back!"

"That's right!" added Mr. Damon. "Bless my powder-horn!  We may all be
going sky-high soon, and without aid from any of Tom Swift's
aeroplanes, either."

Warned by the aged inventor, the throng of men began slowly moving away
from the immediate neighborhood of the blazing shed.  Though it may
seem to the reader that some time has elapsed since the first sounding
of the alarm, all that I have set down took place in a very short
period--hardly three minutes elapsing since Tom and the others came
rushing out of the aerial warship building.

Suddenly a cry arose from the crowd of men near the red shed.  Ned, who
stood ready with several lines of hose, in charge of Koku, Eradicate
and others, to turn them on the airship shed, in case of need, looked
in the direction of the excited throng.

The young bank clerk saw a strange sight. From the top of the dirigible
balloon shed a long, black, cigar-shaped body arose, floating gradually
upward. The very roof of the shed slid back out of the way, as Tom
pressed the operating lever, and the dirigible was free to rise--as
free as though it had been in an open field.

"He's going up!" cried Ned in surprise. "Making an ascent at a time
like this, when he ought to stay here to fight the fire!  What's gotten
into Tom, I'd like to know? I wonder if he can be--"

Ned did not finish his half-formed sentence. A dreadful thought came
into his mind. What if the sudden fire, and the threatened danger, as
well as the prospective loss that confronted Tom, had affected his mind?

"It certainly looks so," mused Ned, as he saw the big balloon float
free from the shed. There was no doubt but that Tom was in it. He could
be seen standing within the pilot-house, operating the various wheels
and levers that controlled the ship of the air.

"What can he be up to?" marveled Ned. "Is he going to run away from the
fire?"

Koku, Eradicate and several others were attracted by the sight of the
great dirigible, now a considerable distance up in the air. Certainly
it looked as though Tom Swift were running away.  Yet Ned knew his chum
better than that.

Then, as they watched, Ned and the others saw the direction of the
balloon change. She turned around in response to the influence of the
rudders and propellers, and was headed straight for the blazing shed,
but some distance above it.

"What can he be planning?" wondered Ned.

He did not have long to wait to find out.

An instant later Tom's plan was made clear to his chum. He saw Tom
circling over the burning red shed, and then the bank clerk saw what
looked like fine rain dropping from the lower part of the balloon
straight into the flames.

"He can't be dousing water on from up above there," reasoned Ned.
"Pouring water on carbide from a height is just as bad as spurting it
on from a hose, though perhaps not so dangerous to the persons doing
it. But it can't be--"

"By Jove!" suddenly exclaimed Ned, as he had a better view of what was
going on. "It's sand, that's what it is! Tom is giving battle to the
flames with sand from the ballast bags of the dirigible! Hurray? That's
the ticket! Sand! The only thing safe to use in case of an explosive
chemical fire.

"Fine for you. Tom Swift! Fine!"




CHAPTER IV

SUSPICIONS


High up aloft, over the blazing red shed, with its dangerous contents
that any moment might explode, Tom Swift continued to hold his big
dirigible balloon as near the flames as possible.  And as he stood
outside on the small deck in front of the pilot-house, where were
located the various controls, the young inventor pulled the levers that
emptied bag after bag of fine sand on the spouting flames that,
already, were beginning to die down as a result of this effectual
quenching.

"Tom's done the trick!" yelled Ned, paying little attention now to the
big airship shed, since he saw that the danger was about over.

"Dhat's what he suah hab done!" agreed Eradicate. "Mah ole mule
Boomerang couldn't 'a' done any better."

"Huh! Your mule afraid of fire," remarked Koku.

"What's dat? Mah mule afraid ob fire?" cried the colored man.  "Look
heah, yo' great, big, overgrowed specimen ob an equilateral quadruped,
I'll hab yo' all understand dat when yo' all speaks dat way about a
friend ob mine dat yo'--"

"That'll do, Rad!" broke in Ned, with a laugh. He knew that when Tom's
helper grew excited on the subject of his mule there was no stopping
him, and Boomerang was a point on which Eradicate and Koku were always
arguing. "The fire is under control now."

"Yes, it seems to have gone visiting," observed Koku.

"Visiting?" queried Ned, in some surprise.

"Yes, that is, it is going out," went on Koku.

"Oh, I understand!" laughed Ned. "Yes, and I hope it doesn't pay us
another visit soon. Oh, look at Tom, would you!" he cried, for the
young aviator had swung his ship about over the flames, to bring
another row of sand bags directly above a place where the fire was
hottest.

Down showered more sand from the bags which Tom opened. No fire could
long continue to blaze under that treatment. The supply of air was cut
off, and without that no fire can exist. Water would have been worse
than useless, because of the carbide, but the sand covered it up so
that it was made perfectly harmless.

Moving slowly, the airship hovered over every part of the now slowly
expiring flames, the burned opening in the roof of the shed making it
possible for the sand to reach the spots where it was most needed. The
flames died out in section after section, until no more could be
seen--only clouds of black smoke.

"How is it now?" came Tom's voice, as he spoke from the deck of the
balloon through a megaphone.

"Almost out," answered Mr. Damon. "A little more sand, Tom."

The eccentric man had caught up a piece of paper and, rolling it into a
cone, made an improvised megaphone of that.

"Haven't much more sand left," was Tom's comment, as he sent down a
last shower. "That will have to do. Hustle that carbide and other
explosive stuff out of there now, while you have a chance."

"That's it!" cried Ned, who caught his chums meaning. "Come on, Koku.
There's work for you."

"Me like work," answered the giant, stretching out his great arms.

The last of the sand had completely smothered the fire, and Tom,
observing from aloft that his work was well done, moved away in the
dirigible, sending it to a landing space some little distance away from
the shed whence it had arisen. It was impossible to drop it back again
through the roof of the hangar, as the balloon was of such bulk that
even a little breeze would deflect it so that it could not be
accurately anchored. But Tom had it under very good control, and soon
it was being held down on the ground by some of his helpers.

As all the sand ballast had been allowed to run out Tom was obliged to
open the gas-valves and let some of the lifting vapor escape, or he
could not have descended.

"Come on, now!" cried the inventor, as he leaped from the deck of his
sky craft. "Let's clean out the red shed. That fire is only smothered,
and there may be sparks smoldering under that sand, which will burst
into flame, if we're not careful. Let's get the explosives out of the
way."

"Bless my insurance policy, yes," exclaimed Mr. Damon. "That was a fine
move of yours."

"It was the only way I could think of to put out the fire," Tom
replied. "I knew water was out of the question, and sand was the next
thing."

"But I didn't know where to get any until I happened to think of the
ballast bags of my dirigible. Then I knew, if I could get above the
fire, I could do the trick. I had to fly pretty high, though, as the
fire was hot, and I was afraid it might explode the gas bag and wreck
me."

"You were taking a chance," remarked Ned.

"Oh, well, you have to take chances in this business," observed Tom,
with a smile. "Now, then, let's finish this work."

The sand, falling from the ballast bags of the dirigible, had so
effectually quenched the fire that it was soon cool enough to permit
close approach. Koku, Tom and some of the men who best knew how to
handle the explosives, were soon engaged in the work of salvage.

"I wish I could help you, Tom," said his aged father. "I don't seem
able to do anything but stand here and look on," and he gazed about him
rather sadly.

"Never you mind, Dad!" Tom exclaimed. "We'll get along all right now.
You'd better go up to the house. Mr. Damon will go with you."

"Yes, of course!" exclaimed the odd man, catching a wink from Tom, who
wanted his father not to get too excited on account of his weak heart.
"Come along, Professor Swift. The danger is all over."

"All right," assented the aged inventor, with a look at the still
smoking shed.

"And, Dad, when you haven't anything else to do," went on Tom, rather
whimsically, "you might be thinking up some plan to take up the recoil
of those guns on my aerial warship. I confess I'm clean stumped on that
point."

"Your aerial warship will never be a success," declared Mr. Swift. "You
might as well give that up, Tom."

"Don't you believe it, Dad!" cried Tom, with more of a jolly air of one
chum toward another than as though the talk was between father and son.
"You solve the recoil problem for me, and I'll take care of the rest,
and make the air warship sail. But we've got something else to do just
now. Lively, boys."

While Mr. Swift, taking Mr. Damon's arm, walked toward the house, Tom,
Ned, Koku, and some of the workmen began carrying out the explosives
which had so narrowly escaped the fire. With long hooks the men pulled
the shed apart, where the side walls had partly been burned through.
Tom maintained an efficient firefighting force at his works, and the
men had the proper tools with which to work.

Soon large openings were made on three sides of the red shed, or
rather, what was left of it, and through these the dangerous chemicals
and carbide, in sheet-iron cans, were carried out to a place of safety.
In a little while nothing remained but a heap of hot sand, some charred
embers and certain material that had been burned.

"Much loss, Tom?" asked Ned, as they surveyed the ruins. They were both
black and grimy, tired and dirty, but there was a great sense of
satisfaction.

"Well, yes, there's more lost than I like to think of," answered Tom
slowly, "but it would have been a heap sight worse if the stuff had
gone up. Still, I can replace what I've lost, except a few models I
kept in this place. I really oughtn't to have stored them here, but
since I've been working on my new aerial warship I have sort of let
other matters slide. I intended to make the red shed nothing but a
storehouse for explosive chemicals, but I still had some of my plans
and models in it when it caught."

"Only for the sand the whole place might have gone," said Ned in a low
voice.

"Yes. It's lucky I had plenty of ballast aboard the dirigible.  You
see, I've been running it alone lately, and I had to take on plenty of
sand to make up for the weight of the several passengers I usually
carry. So I had plenty of stuff to shower down on the fire. I wonder
how it started, anyhow? I must investigate this."

"Mr. Damon and Eradicate seem to have seen it first," remarked Ned.

"Yes. At least they gave the alarm. Guess I'll ask Eradicate how he
happened to notice. Oh, I say, Rad!" Tom called to the colored man.

"Yais, sah, Massa Tom! I'se comin'!" the darky cried, as he finished
piling up, at a safe distance from the fire, a number of cans of
carbide.

"How'd you happen to see the red shed ablaze?" Tom asked.

"Why, it was jest dish yeah way, Massa Tom," began the colored man. "I
had jest been feedin' mah mule, Boomerang. He were pow'ful hungry,
Boomerang were, an', when I give him some oats, wif a carrot sliced up
in 'em--no, hole on--did I gib him a carrot t'day, or was it
yist'day?--I done fo'got. No, it were yist'day I done gib him de
carrot, I 'member now, 'case--"

"Oh, never mind the carrot, or Boomerang, either, Rad!" broke in Tom,
"I'm asking you about the fire."

"An' I'se tellin' yo', Massa Tom," declared Eradicate, with a rather
reproachful look at his master. "But I wanted t' do it right an'
proper. I were comin' from Boomerang's stable, an' I see suffin' red
spoutin' up at one corner ob de red shed. I knowed it were fire right
away, an' I yelled."

"Yes, I heard you yell," Tom said. "But what I wanted to know is, did
you see anyone near the red shed at the time?"

"No, Massa Tom, I done didn't."

"I wonder if Mr. Damon did? I must ask him," went on the young
inventor. "Come, on, Ned, we'll go up to the house. Everything is all
right here, I think. Whew! But that was some excitement. And I didn't
show you my aerial warship after all! Nor have you settled that recoil
problem for me."

"Time enough, I guess," responded Ned. "You sure did have a lucky
escape, Tom."

"That's right. Well, Koku, what is it?" for the giant had approached,
holding out something in his hand.

"Koku found this in red shed," went on the giant, holding out a round,
blackened object. "Maybe him powder; go bang-bang!"

"Oh, you think it's something explosive, eh?" asked Tom, as he took the
object from the giant.

"Koku no think much," was the answer. "Him look funny."

Tom did not speak for a moment. Then he cried:

"Look funny! I should say it did!  See here, Ned, if this isn't
suspicious I'll eat my hat!" and Tom beckoned excitedly to his chum,
who had walked on a little in advance.




CHAPTER V

A QUEER STRANGER


What Tom Swift held in his hand looked like a small cannon ball, but it
could not have been solid or the young aviator would not so easily have
held it out at arm's length for his friend Ned Newton to look at.

"This puts a different face on it, Ned," Tom went on, as he turned the
object over.

"Is that likely to go off?" the bank clerk asked, as he came to a halt
a little distance from his friend.

"Go off? No, it's done all the damage it could, I guess."

"Damage? It looks to me as though it had suffered the most damage
itself. What is it, one of your models? Looks like a bomb to me."

"And that's what it is, Ned."

"Not one of those you're going to use on your aerial warship, is it,
Tom?"

"Not exactly. I never saw this before, but it's what started the fire
in the red shed all right; I'm sure of that."

"Do you really mean it?" cried Ned.

"I sure do."

"Well, if that's the case, I wouldn't leave such dangerous things
around where there are explosives, Tom."

"I didn't, Ned. I wouldn't have had this within a hundred miles of my
shed, if I could have had my way. It's a fire bomb, and it was set to
go off at a certain time. Only I think something went wrong, and the
bomb started a fire ahead of time.

"If it had worked at night, when we were all asleep, we might not have
put the fire out so easily. This sure is suspicious! I'm glad you found
this, Koku."

Tom was carefully examining the bomb, as Ned had correctly named it.
The bank clerk, now that he was assured by his chum that the object had
done all the harm it could, approached closer.

What he saw was merely a hollow shell of iron, with a small opening in
it, as though intended for a place through which to put a charge of
explosives and a fuse.

"But there was no explosion, Tom," explained Ned.

"I know it," said Tom quietly. "It wasn't an explosive bomb.  Smell
that!"

He held the object under Ned's nose so suddenly that the young bank
clerk jumped back.

"Oh, don't get nervous," laughed Tom. "It can't hurt you now.  But what
does that smell like?"

Ned sniffed, sniffed again, thought for a moment, and then sniffed a
third time.

"Why," he said slowly, "I don't just know the name of it, but it's that
funny stuff you mix up sometimes to put in the oxygen tanks when we go
up in the rarefied atmosphere in the balloon or airship."

"Manganese and potash," spoke Tom. "That and two or three other things
that form a chemical combination which goes off by itself of
spontaneous combustion after a certain time. Only the person who put
this bomb together didn't get the chemical mixture just right, and it
went off ahead of time; for which we have to be duly thankful."

"Do you really think that, Tom?" cried Ned.

"I'm positive of it," was the quiet answer.

"Why--why--that would mean some one tried to set fire to the red shed,
Tom!"

"They not only tried it, but did it," responded Tom, more coolly than
seemed natural under the circumstances. "Only for the fact that the
mixture went off before it was intended to, and found us all alert and
ready--well, I don't like to think what might have happened," and Tom
cast a look about at his group of buildings with their valuable
contents.

"You mean some one purposely put that bomb in the red shed, Tom?"

"That's exactly what I mean. Some enemy, who wanted to do me an injury,
planned this thing deliberately. He filled this steel shell with
chemicals which, of themselves, after a certain time, would send out a
hot tongue of flame through this hole," and Tom pointed to the opening
in the round steel shell.

"He knew the fire would be practically unquenchable by ordinary means,
and he counted on its soon eating its way into the carbide and other
explosives. Only it didn't."

"Why, Tom!" cried Ned. "It was just like one of those alarm-clock
dynamite bombs--set to go off at a certain time."

"Exactly," Tom said, "only this was more delicate, and, if it had
worked properly, there wouldn't have been a vestige left to give us a
clue. But the fire, thanks to the ballast sand in the dirigible, was
put out in time. The fuse burned itself out, but I can tell by the
smell that chemicals were in it. That's all, Koku," he went on to the
giant who had stood waiting, not understanding all the talk between Tom
and Ned. "I'll take care of this now."

"Bad man put it there?" asked the giant, who at least comprehended that
something was wrong.

"Well, yes, I guess you could say it was a bad man," replied Tom.

"Ha! If Koku find bad man--bad for that man!" muttered the giant, as he
clasped his two enormous hands together, as though they were already on
the fellow who had tried to do Tom Swift such an injury.

"I wouldn't like to be that man, if Koku catches him," observed Ned.
"Have you any idea who it could be, Tom?"

"Not the least. Of course I know I have enemies, Ned. Every successful
inventor has persons who imagine he has stolen their ideas, whether he
has ever seen them or not. It may have been one of those persons, or
some half-mad crank, who was jealous. It would be impossible to say,
Ned."

"It wouldn't be Andy Foger, would it?"

"No; I don't believe Andy has been in this neighborhood for some time.
The last lesson we gave him sickened him, I guess."

"How about those diamond-makers, whose secret you discovered?  They
wouldn't be trying to get back at you, would they?"

"Well, it's possible, Ned. But I don't imagine so. They seem to have
been pretty well broken up. No, I don't believe it was the
diamond-makers who put this fire bomb in the red shed. Their line of
activities didn't include this branch. It takes a chemist to know just
how to blend the things contained in the bomb, and even a good chemist
is likely to fail--as this one did, as far as time went."

"What are you going to do about it?" Ned asked.

"I don't know," and Tom spoke slowly, "I hoped I was done with all that
sort of thing," he went on; "fighting enemies whom I have never
knowingly injured. But it seems they are still after me. Well, Ned,
this gives us something to do, at all events."

"You mean trying to find out who these fellows are?"

"Yes; that is, if you are willing to help."

"Well, I guess I am!" cried the bank clerk with sparkling eyes.  "I
wouldn't ask anything better. We've been in things like this before,
Tom, and we'll go in again--and win! I'll help you all I can. Now,
let's see if we can pick up any other clues. This is like old times!"
and Ned laughed, for he, like Tom, enjoyed a good "fight," and one in
which the odds were against them.

"We sure will have our hands full," declared the young inventor.
"Trying to solve the problem of carrying guns on an aerial warship, and
finding out who set this fire."

"Then you're not going to give up your aerial warship idea?"

"No, indeed!" Tom cried. "What made you think that?"

"Well, the way your father spoke--"

"Oh, dear old dad!" exclaimed Tom affectionately. "I don't want to
argue with him, but he's dead wrong!"

"Then you are going to make a go of it?"

"I sure am, Ned! All I have to solve is the recoil proposition, and, as
soon as we get straightened out from this fire, we'll tackle that
problem again--you and I. But I sure would like to know who put this in
my red shed," and Tom looked in a puzzled manner at the empty fire bomb
he still held.

Tom paused, on his way to the house, to put the bomb in one of his
offices.

"No use letting dad know about this," he went on. "It would only be
something else for him to worry about."

"That's right," agreed Ned.

By this time nearly all evidences of the fire, except for the blackened
ruins of the shed, had been cleared away. High in the air hung a cloud
of black smoke, caused by some chemicals that had burned harmlessly
save for that pall. Tom Swift had indeed had a lucky escape.

The young inventor, finding his father quieted down and conversing
easily with Mr. Damon, who was blessing everything he could think of,
motioned to Ned to follow him out of the house again.

"We'll leave dad here," said Tom, "and do a little investigating on our
own account. We'll look for clues while they're fresh."

But, it must be confessed, after Tom and Ned had spent the rest of that
day in and about the burned shed, they were little wiser than when they
started. They found the place where the fire bomb had evidently been
placed, right inside the main entrance to the shed. Tom knew it had
been there because there were peculiar marks on the charred wood, and a
certain queer smell of chemicals that confirmed his belief.

"They put the bomb there to prevent anyone going in at the first alarm
and saving anything," Tom said. "They didn't count on the roof burning
through first, giving me a chance to use the sand. I made the roof of
the red shed flimsy just on that account, so the force of the explosion
if one ever came, would be mostly upward. You know the expanding gases,
caused by an explosion or by rapid combustion, always do just as
electricity does, seek the shortest and easiest route. In this case I
made the roof the easiest route."

"A lucky provision," observed Ned.

That night Tom had to confess himself beaten, as far as finding clues
was concerned. The empty fire bomb was the only one, and that seemed
valueless.

Close questioning of the workmen failed to disclose anything.  Tom was
particularly anxious to discover if any mysterious strangers had been
seen about the works. There was a strict rule about admitting them to
the plant, however, and it could not be learned that this had been
violated.

"Well, we'll just have to lay that aside for a while," Tom said the
next day, when Ned again came to pay a visit. "Now, what do you say to
tackling, with me, that recoil problem on the aerial warship?"

"I'm ready, if you are," Ned agreed, "though I know about as much of
those things as a snake does about dancing. But I'm game."

The two friends walked out toward the shed where Tom's new craft was
housed. As yet Ned had not seen it. On the way they saw Eradicate
walking along, talking to himself, as he often did.

"I wonder what he has on his mind," remarked Ned musingly.

"Something does seem to be worrying him," agreed Tom.

As they neared the colored man, they could hear him saying:

"He suah did hab nerve, dat's what he did! De idea ob askin' me all dem
questions, an' den wantin' t' know if I'd sell him!"

"What's that, Eradicate?" asked Tom.

"Oh, it's a man I met when I were comin' back from de ash dump,"
Eradicate explained. One of the colored man's duties was to cart ashes
away from Tom's various shops, and dump them in a certain swampy lot.
With an old ramshackle cart, and his mule, Boomerang, Eradicate did
this task to perfection.

"A man--what sort of a man?" asked Tom, always ready to be suspicious
of anything unusual.

"He were a queer man," went on the aged colored helper. "First he
stopped me an' asted me fo' a ride. He was a dressed-up gen'man, too,
an' I were suah s'prised at him wantin' t' set in mah ole ash cart,"
said Eradicate. "But I done was polite t' him, an' fixed a blanket so's
he wouldn't git too dirty. Den he asted me ef I didn't wuk fo' yo',
Massa Tom, an' of course I says as how I did. Den he asted me about de
fire, an' how much damage it done, an' how we put it out. An' he end up
by sayin' he'd laik t' buy mah mule, Boomerang, an' he wants t' come
heah dis arternoon an' talk t' me about it."

"He does, eh?" cried Tom. "What sort of a man was he, Rad?"

"Well, a gen'man sort ob man, Massa Tom. Stranger t' me. I nebber seed
him afo'. He suah was monstrous polite t' ole black Eradicate, an' he
gib me a half-dollar, too, jest fo' a little ride. But I aint' gwine t'
sell Boomerang, no indeedy, I ain't!" and Eradicate shook his gray,
kinky head decidedly.

"Ned, there may be something in this!" said Tom, in an excited whisper
to his chum. "I don't like the idea of a mysterious stranger
questioning Eradicate!"




CHAPTER VI

THE AERIAL WARSHIP


Ned Newton looked at Tom questioningly. Then he glanced at the
unsuspicious colored man, who was industriously polishing the
half-dollar the mysterious stranger had given him.

"Rad, just exactly what sort of a man was this one you speak of?" asked
Tom.

"Why, he were a gen'man--"

"Yes, I know that much. You've said it before. But was he an
Englishman, an American--or--"

Tom paused and waited for an answer.

"I think he were a Frenchman," spoke Eradicate. "I done didn't see him
eat no frogs' laigs, but he smoked a cigarette dat had a funny smell,
and he suah was monstrous polite. He suah was a Frenchman. I think."

Tom and Ned laughed at Eradicate's description of the man, but Tom's
face was soon grave again.

"Tell us more about him, Rad," he suggested. "Did he seem especially
interested in the fire?"

"No, sah, Massa Tom, he seemed laik he was more special interested in
mah mule, Boomerang. He done asted how long I had him, an' how much I
wanted fo' him, an' how old he was."

"But every once in a while he put in some question about the fire, or
about our shops, didn't he, Rad?" Tom wanted to know.

The colored man scratched his kinky head, and glanced with a queer look
at Tom.

"How yo' all done guess dat?" he asked.

"Answer my question," insisted Tom.

"Yes, sah, he done did ask about yo', and de wuks, ebery now and den,"
Rad confessed. "But how yo' all knowed dat, Massa Tom, when I were
a-tellin' yo' all about him astin' fo' mah mule, done gets me--dat's
what it suah does."

"Never mind, Rad. He asked questions about the plant, that's all I want
to know. But you didn't tell him much, did you?"

Eradicate looked reproachfully at his master.

"Yo' all done knows me bettah dan dat, Massa Tom," the old colored man
said. "Yo' all know yo' done gib orders fo' nobody t' talk about yo'
projections."

"Yes, I know I gave those orders," Tom said, with a smile, "but I want
to make sure that they have been followed."

"Well, I done follered 'em, Massa Tom."

"Then you didn't tell this queer stranger, Frenchman, or whatever he
is, much about my place?"

"I didn't tell him nuffin', sah. I done frowed dust in his eyes."

Ned uttered an exclamation of surprise.

"Eradicate is speaking figuratively," Tom said, with a laugh.

"Dat's what I means," the colored man went on. "I done fooled him. When
he asted me about de fire I said it didn't do no damage at all--in fack
dat we'd rather hab de fire dan not hab it, 'case it done gib us a
chance t' practice our hose drill."

"That's good," laughed Tom. "What else?"

"Well, he done sort ob hinted t' me ef we all knowed how de fire done
start. I says as how we did, dat we done start it ourse'ves fo'
practice, an dat we done expected it all along, an' were ready fo' it.
Course I knows dat were a sort of fairy story, Massa Tom, but den dat
cigarette-smokin' Frenchman didn't hab no right t' asted me so many
questions, did he?"

"No, indeed, Rad. And I'm glad you didn't give him straight answers. So
he's coming here later on, is he?"

"T' see ef I wants t' sell mah mule, Boomerang, yais, sah. I sort ob
thought maybe you'd want t' hab a look at dat man, so I tole him t'
come on. Course I doan't want t' sell Boomerang, but ef he was t' offer
me a big lot ob money fo' him I'd take it."

"Of course," Tom answered. "Very well, Rad. You may go on now, and
don't say anything to anyone about what you have told me."

"I won't, Massa Tom," promised the colored man, as he went off
muttering to himself.

"Well, what do you make of it, Tom?" asked Ned of his chum, as they
walked on toward the shed of the new, big aerial warship.

"I don't know just what to think, Ned. Of course things like this have
happened before--persons trying to worm secrets out of Eradicate, or
some of the other men."

"They never succeeded in getting much, I'm glad to say, but it always
keeps me worried for fear something will happen," Tom concluded.

"But about this Frenchman?"

"Well, he must be a new one. And, now I come to think of it, I did hear
some of the men speaking about a foreigner--a stranger--being around
town last week. It was just a casual reference, and I paid little
attention to it. Now it looks as though there might be something in it."

"Do you think he'll come to bargain with Eradicate about the mule?" Ned
asked.

"Hardly. That was only talk to make Eradicate unsuspicious. The
stranger, whoever he was, sized Rad up partly right. I surmised, when
Rad said he asked a lot of questions about the mule, that was only to
divert suspicion, and that he'd come back to the subject of the fire
every chance he got."

"And you were right."

"Yes, so it seems. But I don't believe the fellow will come around
here. It would be too risky. All the same, we'll be prepared for him.
I'll just rig up one of my photo-telephone machines, so that, if he
does come to have a talk with Rad, we can both see and hear him."

"That's great, Tom! But do you think this fellow had anything to do
with the fire?"

"I don't know. He knew about it, of course. This isn't the first fire
we've had in the works, and, though we always fight them ourselves,
still news of it will leak out to the town. So he could easily have
known about it. And he might be in with those who set it, for I firmly
believe the fire was set by someone who has an object in injuring me."

"It's too bad!" declared Ned. "Seems as though they might let you
alone, if they haven't gumption enough to invent things for themselves."

"Well, don't worry. Maybe it will come out all right," returned Tom.
"Now, let's go and have a look at my aerial warship. I haven't shown it
to you yet. Then we'll get ready for that mysterious Frenchman, if he
comes--but I don't believe he will."

The young inventor unlocked the door of the shed where he kept his
latest "pet," and at the sight which met his eyes Ned Newton uttered an
exclamation of surprise.

"Tom, what is it?" he cried in an awed voice.

"My aerial warship!" was the quiet answer.

Ned Newton gave vent to a long whistle, and then began a detailed
examination of the wonderful craft he saw before him.  That is, he made
as detailed an examination as was possible under the circumstances, for
it was a long time before the young bank clerk fully appreciated all
Tom Swift had accomplished in building the Mars, which was the warlike
name painted in red letters on the big gas container that tugged and
swayed overhead.

"Tom, however did you do it?" gasped Ned at length.

"By hard work," was the modest reply. "I've been at this for a longer
time than you'd suppose, working on it at odd moments. I had a lot of
help, too, or I never could have done it. And now it is nearly all
finished, as far as the ship itself is concerned.  The only thing that
bothers me is to provide for the recoil of the guns I want to carry.
Maybe you can help me with that. Come on, now, I'll explain how the
affair works, and what I hope to accomplish with it."

In brief Tom's aerial warship was a sort of German Zeppelin type of
dirigible balloon, rising in the air by means of a gas container, or,
rather, several of them, for the section for holding the lifting gas
element was divided by bulkheads.

The chief difference between dirigible balloons and ordinary
aeroplanes, as you all know, is that the former are lifted from the
earth by a gas, such as hydrogen, which is lighter than air, while the
aeroplane lifts itself by getting into motion, when broad, flat planes,
or surfaces, hold it up, just as a flat stone is held up when you sail
it through the air. The moment the stone, or aeroplane, loses its
forward motion, it begins to fall.

This is not so with a dirigible balloon. It is held in the air by means
of the lifting gas, and once so in the air can be sent in any direction
by means of propellers and rudders.

Tom's aerial warship contained many new features. While it was as large
as some of the war-type Zeppelins, it differed from them materially.
But the details would be of more interest to a scientific builder of
such things than to the ordinary reader, so I will not weary you with
them.

Sufficient to say that Tom's craft consisted first of a great
semi-rigid bag, or envelope, made of specially prepared oiled silk and
aluminum, to hold the gas, which was manufactured on board. There were
a number of gas-tight compartments, so that if one, or even if a number
of them burst, or were shot by an enemy, the craft would still remain
afloat.

Below the big gas bag was the ship proper, a light but strong and rigid
framework about which were built enclosed cabins. These cabins, or
compartments, housed the driving machinery, the gas-generating plant,
living, sleeping and dining quarters, and a pilot-house, whence the
ship could be controlled.

But this was not all.

Ned, making a tour of the Mars, as she swayed gently in the big shed,
saw where several aluminum pedestals were mounted, fore and aft and on
either beam of the ship.

"They look just like places where you intend to mount guns," said Ned
to Tom.

"And that's exactly what they are," the young inventor replied.  "I
have the guns nearly ready for mounting, but I can't seem to think of a
way of providing for the recoil. And if I don't take care of that, I'm
likely to find my ship coming apart under me, after we bombard the
enemy with a broadside or two."

"Then you intend to fight with this ship?" asked Ned.

"Well, no; not exactly personally. I was thinking of offering it to the
United States Government. Foreign nations are getting ready large
fleets of aerial warships, so why shouldn't we?  Matters in Europe are
mighty uncertain. There may be a great war there in which aerial craft
will play a big part. I am conceited enough to think I can build one
that will measure up to the foreign ones, and I'll soon be in a
position to know."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean I have already communicated with our government experts, and
they are soon to come and inspect this craft. I have sent them word
that it is about finished. There is only the matter of the guns, and
some of the ordnance officers may be able to help me out with a
suggestion, for I admit I am stuck!" exclaimed Tom.

"Then you're going to do the same with this aerial warship as you did
with your big lantern and that immense gun you perfected?" asked Ned.

"That's right," confirmed Tom. My former readers will know to what Ned
Newton referred, and those of you who do not may learn the details of
how Tom helped Uncle Sam, by reading the previous volumes, "Tom Swift
and His Great Searchlight," and "Tom Swift and His Giant Cannon."

"When do you expect the government experts?" Ned asked.

"Within a few days, now. But I'll have to hustle to get ready for them,
as this fire has put me back. There are quite a number of details I
need to change. Well, now, let me explain about that gun recoil
business. Maybe you can help me."

"Fire away," laughed Ned. "I'll do the best I can."

Tom led the way from the main shed, where the aerial warship was
housed, to a small private office. As Ned entered, the door, pulled by
a strong spring, swung after him. He held back his hand to prevent it
from slamming, but there was no need, for a patent arrangement took up
all the force, and the door closed gently.  Ned looked around, not much
surprised, for the same sort of door-check was in use at his bank. But
a sudden idea came to him.

"There you are, Tom!" he cried. "Why not take up the recoil of the guns
on your aerial warship by some such device as that?" and Ned pointed to
the door-check.




CHAPTER VII

WARNINGS


For a moment or two Tom Swift did not seem to comprehend what Ned had
said. He remained staring, first at his chum, who stood pointing, and
from him Tom's gaze wandered to the top of the door. It may have been,
and probably was, that Tom was thinking of other matters at that
instant. But Ned said again:

"Wouldn't that do, Tom? Check the recoil of the gun with whatever stuff
is in that arrangement!"

A sudden change came over Tom's face. It was lighted up with a gleam of
understanding.

"By Jove, Ned, old man!" he cried. "I believe you've struck it!  And to
think that has been under my nose, or, rather, over my head, all this
while, and I never thought of it. Hurray! That will solve the problem!"

"Do you think it will?" asked Ned, glad that he had contributed
something, if only an idea, to Tom's aerial warship.

"I'm almost sure it will. I'll give it a trial right away."

"What's in that door-check?" Ned asked. "I never stopped before to
think what useful things they are, though at the bank, with the big,
heavy doors, they are mighty useful."

"They are a combination of springs and hydrostatic valves," began Tom.

"Good-night!" laughed  Ned. "Excuse the slang, Tom, but what in the
world is a hydrostatic valve?"

"A valve through which liquids pass. In this door-check there may be a
mixture of water, alcohol and glycerine, the alcohol to prevent
freezing in cold weather, and the glycerine to give body to the mixture
so it will not flow through the valves too freely."

"And do you think you can put something like that on your guns, so the
recoil will be taken up?" Ned wanted to know.

"I think so," spoke Tom. "I'm going to work on it right away, and we'll
soon see how it will turn out. It's mighty lucky you thought of that,
for I sure was up against it, as the boys say."

"It just seemed to come to me," spoke Ned, "seeing how easily the door
closed."

"If the thing works I'll give you due credit for it," promised Tom.
"Now, I've got to figure out how much force a modified hydrostatic
valve check like that will take up, and how much recoil my biggest gun
will have."

"Then you're going to put several guns on the Mars?" asked Ned.

"Yes, four quick-firers, at least, two on each side, and heavier guns
at the bow and stern, to throw explosive shells in a horizontal or
upward direction. For a downward direction we won't need any guns, we
can simply drop the bombs, or shells, from a release clutch."

"Drop them on other air craft?" Ned wanted to know.

"Well, if it's necessary, yes. Though I guess there won't be much
chance of doing that to a rival aeroplane or dirigible. But in flying
over cities or forts, explosive bombs can be dropped very nicely. For
use in attacking other air craft I am going to depend on my lateral
fire, from the guns mounted on either beam, and in the bow and stern."

"You speak as though you, yourself, were going into a battle of the
air," said Ned.

"No, I don't believe I'll go that far," Tom replied. "Though, if the
government wants my craft, I may have to go aloft and fire shots at
targets for them to show them how things work.

"Please don't think that I am in favor of war, Ned," went on Tom
earnestly. "I hate it, and I wish the time would come when all nations
would disarm. But if the other countries are laying themselves out to
have aerial battleships, it is time the United States did also. We must
not be left behind, especially in view of what is taking place in
Europe."

"I suppose that's right," agreed Ned. "Have you any of your guns ready?"

"Yes, all but the mounting of them on the supports aboard the Mars. I
haven't dared do that yet, and fire them, until I provided some means
of taking up the recoil. Now I'm going to get right to work on that
problem."

There was considerable detailed figuring and computation work ahead of
Tom Swift, and I will not weary you by going into the details of higher
mathematics. Even Ned lost interest after the start of the problem,
though he was interested when Tom took down the door-check and began
measuring the amount of force it would take up, computing it on scales
and spring balances.

Once this had been done, and Tom had figured just how much force could
be expected to be taken up by a larger check, with stronger hydrostatic
valves, the young inventor explained:

"And now to see how much recoil force my guns develop!"

"Are you really going to fire the guns?" asked Ned.

"Surely," answered Tom. "That's the only way to get at real results.
I'll have the guns taken out and mounted in a big field.  Then we'll
fire them, and measure the recoil."

"Well, that may be some fun," spoke Ned, with a grin. "More fun than
all these figures," and he looked at the mass of details on Tom's desk.

This was the second or third day after the fire in the red shed, and in
the interim Tom had been busy making computations.  These were about
finished. Meanwhile further investigation had been made of clues
leading to the origin of the blaze in the shed, but nothing had been
learned.

A photo-telephone had been installed near Eradicate's quarters, in the
hope that the mysterious stranger might keep his promise, and come to
see about the mule. In that case something would have been learned
about him. But, as Tom feared, the man did not appear.

Ned was much interested in the guns, and, a little later, he helped Tom
and Koku mount them in a vacant lot. The giant's strength came in handy
in handling the big parts.

Mr. Swift strolled past, as the guns were being mounted for the
preliminary test, and inquired what his son was doing.

"It will never work, Tom, never!" declared the aged inventor, when
informed. "You can't take up those guns in your air craft, and fire
them with any degree of safety."

"You wait, Dad," laughed Tom. "You haven't yet seen how the Newton
hydrostatic recoil operates."

Ned smiled with pleasure at this.

It took nearly a week to get all the guns mounted, for some of them
required considerable work, and it was also necessary to attach gauges
to them to register the recoil and pressure. In the meanwhile Tom had
been in further communication with government experts who were soon to
call on him to inspect the aerial warship, with a view to purchase.

"When are they coming?" asked Ned, as he and Tom went out one morning
to make the first test of the guns.

"They will be here any day, now. They didn't set any definite date. I
suppose they want to take us unawares, to see that I don't 'frame-up'
any game on them. Well, I'll be ready any time they come. Now, Koku,
bring along those shells, and don't drop any of them, for that new
powder is freakish stuff."

"Me no drop any, Master," spoke the giant, as he lifted the boxes of
explosives in his strong arms.

The largest gun was loaded and aimed at a distant hill, for Tom knew
that if the recoil apparatus would take care of the excess force of his
largest gun, the problem of the smaller ones would be easy to solve.

"Here, Rad, where are you going?" Tom asked, as he noticed the colored
man walking away, after having completed a task assigned to him.

"Where's I gwine, Massa Tom?"

"Yes, Rad, that's what I asked you."

"I--I'se gwine t' feed mah mule, Boomerang," said the colored man
slowly. "It's his eatin' time, jest now, Massa Tom."

"Nonsense! It isn't anywhere near noon yet."

"Yais, sab, Massa Tom, I knows dat," said Eradicate, as he carefully
edged away from the big gun, "but I'se done changed de eatin' hours ob
dat mule. He had a little touch ob indigestion de udder day, an' I'se
feedin' him diff'rent now. So I guess as how yo'll hab t' 'scuse me
now, Massa Tom."

"Oh, well, trot along," laughed the young inventor. "I guess we won't
need you. Is everything all right there, Koku?"

"All right, Master."

"Now, Ned, if you'll stand here," went on Tom, "and note the extreme
point to which the hand on the pressure gauge goes, I'll be obliged to
you. Just jot it down on this pad."

"Here comes someone," remarked the bank clerk, as he saw that his
pencil was sharpened. He pointed to the field back of them.

"It's Mr. Damon," observed Tom. "We'll wait until he arrives.  He'll be
interested in this."

"Bless my collar button, Tom!  What's going on?" asked the eccentric
man, as he came up. "Has war been declared?"

"Just practicing," replied the young inventor. "Getting ready to put
the armament on my aerial warship."

"Well, as long as I'm behind the guns I'm all right, I suppose?"

"Perfectly," Tom replied. "Now then, Ned, I think we'll fire."

There was a moment of inspection, to see that nothing had been
forgotten, and then the big gun was discharged. There was a loud
report, not as heavy, though, as Ned had expected, but there was no
puff of smoke, for Tom was using smokeless powder. Only a little flash
of flame was observed.

"Catch the figure, Ned!" Tom cried.

"I have it!" was the answer. "Eighty thousand!"

"Good! And I can build a recoil check that will take up to one hundred
and twenty thousand pounds pressure. That ought to be margin of safety
enough. Now we'll try another shot."

The echoes of the first had hardly died away before the second gun was
ready for the test. That, too, was satisfactory, and then the smaller
ones were operated. These were not quite so satisfactory, as the recoil
developed was larger, in proportion to their size, than Tom had figured.

"But I can easily put a larger hydrostatic check on them," he said.
"Now, we'll fire by batteries, and see what the total is."

Then began a perfect bombardment of the distant hillside, service
charges being used, and explosive shells sent out so that dirt,
stones and gravel flew in all directions. Danger signs and flags had
been posted, and a cordon of Tom's men kept spectators away from the
hill, so no one would be in the danger zone.

The young inventor was busy making some calculations after the last of
the firing had been completed. Koku was packing up the unfired shells,
and Mr. Damon was blessing his ear-drums, and the pieces of cotton he
had stuffed in to protect them, when a tall, erect man was observed
strolling over the fields in the direction of the guns.

"Somebody's coming, Tom," warned Ned.

"Yes, and a stranger, too," observed Tom. "I wonder if that can be
Eradicate's Frenchman?"

But a look at the stranger's face disproved that surmise. He had a
frank and pleasant countenance, obviously American.

"I beg your pardon," he began, addressing everyone in general, "but I
am looking for Tom Swift. I was told he was here."

"I am Tom Swift," replied our hero.

"Ah! Well, I am Lieutenant Marbury, with whom you had some
correspondence recently about--"

"Oh, yes, Lieutenant Marbury, of the United States Navy," interrupted
Tom. "I'm glad to see you," he went on, holding out his hand. "We are
just completing some tests with the guns. You called, I presume, in
reference to my aerial warship?"

"That is it--yes. Have you it ready for a trial flight?"

"Well, almost. It can be made ready in a few hours. You see, I have
been delayed. There was a fire in the plant."

"A fire!" exclaimed the officer in surprise. "How was that? We heard
nothing of it in Washington."

"No, I kept it rather quiet," Tom explained. "We had reason to suspect
that it was a fire purposely set, in a shed where I kept a quantity of
explosives."

"Ha!" exclaimed Lieutenant Marbury. "This fits in with what I have
heard. And did you not receive warning?" he asked Tom.

"Warning? No. Of what?"

"Of foreign spies!" was the unexpected answer. "I am sorry.  Some of
our Secret Service men unearthed something of a plot against you, and I
presumed you had been told to watch out. If you had, the fire might not
have occurred. There must have been some error in Washington. But let
me tell you now, Tom Swift--be on your guard!"




CHAPTER VIII

A SUSPECTED PLOT


The officer's words were so filled with meaning that Tom started. Ned
Newton, too, showed the effect he felt.

"Do you really mean that?" asked the young inventor, looking around to
make sure his father was not present. On account of Professor Swift's
weak heart, Tom wished to spare him all possible worry.

"I certainly do mean it," insisted Lieutenant Marbury. "And, while I am
rather amazed at the news of the fire, for I did not think the plotters
would be so bold as that, it is in line with what I expected, and what
we suspected in Washington."

"And that was--what?" asked Tom.

"The existence of a well-laid plot, not only against our government,
but against you!"

"And why have they singled me out?" Tom demanded.

"I might as well tell it from the beginning," the officer went on. "As
long as you have not received any official warning from Washington you
had better hear the whole story. But are you sure you had no word?"

"Well, now, I won't be so sure," Tom confessed. "I have been working
very hard, the last two days, making some intricate calculations. I
have rather neglected my mail, to tell you the truth.

"And, come to think of it, there were several letters received with the
Washington postmark. But, I supposed they had to do with some of my
patents, and I only casually glanced over them. There was one letter,
though, that I couldn't make head or tail of."

"Ha! That was it!" cried the lieutenant. "It was the warning in cipher
or code. I didn't think they would neglect to send it to you."

"But what good would it do me if I couldn't read it?" asked Tom.

"You must also have received a method of deciphering the message," the
officer said. "Probably you overlooked that. The Secret Service men
sent you the warning in code, so it would not be found out by the
plotters, and, to make sure you could understand it, a method of
translating the cipher was sent in a separate envelope. It is too bad
you missed it."

"Yes, for I might have been on my guard," agreed Tom. "The red shed
might not have burned, but, as it was, only slight damage was done."

"Owing to the fact that Tom put the fire out with sand ballast from his
dirigible!" cried Ned. "You should have seen it!"

"I should have liked to be here," the lieutenant spoke. "But, if I were
you, Tom Swift, I would take means to prevent a repetition of such
things."

"I shall," Tom decided. "But, if we want to talk, we had better go to
my office, where we can be more private. I don't want the workmen to
hear too much."

Now that the firing was over, a number of Tom's men from the shops had
assembled around the cannon. Most of them, the young inventor felt,
could be trusted, but in so large a gathering one could never be sure.

"Did you come on from Washington yesterday?" asked Tom, as he, Ned and
the officer strolled toward the shed where was housed the aerial
warship.

"Yes, and I spent the night in New York. I arrived in town a short time
ago, and came right on out here. At your house I was told you were over
in the fields conducting experiments, so I came on here."

"Glad you did," Tom said. "I'll soon have something to show you, I
hope. But I am interested in hearing the details of this suspected
plot. Are you sure one exists?"

"Perfectly sure," was the answer. "We don't know all the details yet,
nor who are concerned in it, but we are working on the case. The Secret
Service has several agents in the field.

"We are convinced in Washington," went on Lieutenant Marbury, when he,
Tom and Ned were seated in the private office, "that foreign spies are
at work against you and against our government."

"Why against me?" asked Tom, in wonder.

"Because of the inventions you have perfected and turned over to Uncle
Sam--notably the giant cannon, which rivals anything foreign European
powers have, and the great searchlight, which proved so effective
against the border smugglers. The success of those two alone, to say
nothing of your submarine, has not only made foreign nations jealous,
but they fear you--and us," the officer went on.

"Well, if they only take it out in fear--"

"But they won't!" interrupted the officer--"They are seeking to destroy
those inventions. More than once, of late, we have nipped a plot just
in time."

"Have they really tried to damage the big gun?" asked Tom, referring to
one he had built and set up at Panama.

"They have. And now this fire proves that they are taking other
measures--they are working directly against you."

"Why, I wonder?"

"Either to prevent you from making further inventions, or to stop you
from completing your latest--the aerial warship."

"But I didn't know the foreign governments knew about that," Tom
exclaimed. "It was a secret."

"Few secrets are safe from foreign Spies," declared Lieutenant Marbury.
"They have a great ferreting-out system on the other side. We are just
beginning to appreciate it. But our own men have not been idle."

"Have they really learned anything?" Tom asked.  "Nothing definite
enough to warrant us in acting," was the answer of the government man.
"But we know enough to let us see that the plot is far-reaching."

"Are the French in it?" asked Ned impulsively.

"The French! Why do you ask that?"

"Tell him about Eradicate, and the man who wanted to buy the mule,
Tom," suggested Ned.

Thereupon the young inventor mentioned the story told by Eradicate. He
also brought out the fire-bomb, and explained his theory as to how it
had operated to set the red shed ablaze.

"I think you are right," said Lieutenant Marbury. "And, as regards the
French, I might say they are not the only nation banded to obtain our
secrets--yours and the government's!"

"But I thought the French and the English were friendly toward us!" Ned
exclaimed.

"So they are, in a certain measure," the officer went on. "And Russia
is, too. But, in all foreign countries there are two parties, the war
party, as it might be called, and the peace element.

"But I might add that it is neither France, England, nor Russia that we
must fear. It is a certain other great nation, which at present I will
not name."

"And you think spies set this fire?"

"I certainly do."

"But what measures shall I adopt against this plot?" Tom asked.

"We will talk that over," said Lieutenant Marbury. "But, before I go
into details, I want to give you another warning. You must be very
careful about--"

A sudden knock on the door interrupted the speaker.




CHAPTER IX

THE RECOIL CHECK


"Who is that?" asked Ned Newton, with a quick glance at his chum.

"I don't know," Tom answered. "I left orders we weren't to be disturbed
unless it was something important."

"May be something has happened," suggested the navy officer, "another
fire, perhaps, or a--"

"It isn't a fire," Tom answered. "The automatic alarm would be ringing
before this in that case."

The knock was repeated. Tom went softly to the door and opened it
quickly, to disclose, standing in the corridor, one of the messengers
employed about the shops.

"Well, what is it?" asked Tom a bit sharply.

"Oh, if you please, Mr. Swift," said the boy, "a man has applied for
work at the main office, and you know you left orders there that if any
machinists came along, we were to--"

"Oh, so I did," Tom exclaimed. "I had forgotten about that," he went on
to Lieutenant Marbury and Ned. "I am in need of helpers to rush through
the finishing touches on my aerial warship, and I left word, if any
applied, as they often do, coming here from other cities, that I wanted
to see them. How many are there?" Tom asked of the messenger.

"Two, this time. They both say they're good mechanics."

"That's what they all say," interposed Tom, with a smile. "But, though
they may be good mechanics in their own line, they need to have special
qualifications to work on airships. Tell them to wait, Rodney," Tom
went on to the lad, "and I'll see them presently."

As the boy went away, and Tom closed the door, he turned to Lieutenant
Marbury.

"You were about to give me another warning when that interruption came.
You might complete it now."

"Yes, it was another warning," spoke the officer, "and one I hope you
will heed. It concerns yourself, personally."

"Do you mean he is in danger?" asked Ned quickly.

"That's exactly what I do mean," was the prompt reply. "In danger of
personal injury, if not something worse."

Tom did not seem as alarmed as he might reasonably have been under the
circumstances.

"Danger, eh?" he repeated coolly. "On the part of whom?"

"That's just where I can't warn you," the officer replied. "I can only
give you that hint, and beg of you to be careful."

"Do you mean you are not allowed to tell?" asked Ned.

"No, indeed; it isn't that!" the lieutenant hastened to assure the
young man. "I would gladly tell, if I knew. But this plot, like the
other one, directed against the inventions themselves, is so shrouded
in mystery that I cannot get to the bottom of it.

"Our Secret Service men have been working on it for some time, not only
in order to protect you, because of what you have done for the
government, but because Uncle Sam wishes to protect his own property,
especially the searchlight and the big cannon. But, though our agents
have worked hard, they have not been able to get any clues that would
put them on the right trail.

"So we can only warn you to be careful, and this I do in all
earnestness. That was part of my errand in coming here, though, of
course, I am anxious to inspect the new aerial warship you have
constructed. So watch out for two things--your inventions, and, more
than all, your life!"

"Do you really think they would do me bodily harm?" Tom asked, a trifle
skeptical.

"I certainly do. These foreign spies are desperate. If they cannot
secure the use of these inventions to their own country, they are
determined not to let this country have the benefit of them."

"Well, I'll be careful," Tom promised. "I'm no more anxious than anyone
else to run my head into danger, and I certainly don't want any of my
shops or inventions destroyed. The fire in the red shed was as close as
I want anything to come."

"That's right!" agreed Ned. "And, if there's anything I can do, Tom,
don't hesitate to call on me."

"All right, old man. I won't forget. And now, perhaps, you would like
to see the Mars," he said to the lieutenant.

"I certainly would," was the ready answer. "But hadn't you better see
those men who are waiting to find out about positions here?"

"There's no hurry about them," Tom said. "We have applicants every day,
and it's earlier than the hour when I usually see them. They can wait.
Now I want your opinion on my new craft.  But, you must remember that
it is not yet completed, and only recently did I begin to solve the
problem of mounting the guns.  So be a little easy with your
criticisms."

Followed by Ned and Lieutenant Marbury, Tom led the way into the big
airship shed. There, swaying about at its moorings, was the immense
aerial warship. To Ned's eyes it looked complete enough, but, when Tom
pointed out the various parts, and explained to the government officer
how it was going to work, Ned understood that considerable yet remained
to be done on it.

Tom showed his official guest how a new system of elevation and
depressing rudders had been adopted, how a new type of propeller was to
be used and indicated several other improvements. The lower, or cabin,
part of the aircraft could be entered by mounting a short ladder from
the ground, and Tom took Ned and Lieutenant Marbury through the
engine-room and other compartments of the Mars.

"It certainly is most complete," the officer observed. "And when you
get the guns mounted I shall be glad to make an official test. You
understand," he went on, to Tom, "that we are vitally interested in the
guns, since we now have many aircraft that can be used purely for
scouting purposes. What we want is something for offense, a veritable
naval terror of the seas."

"I understand," Tom answered. "And I am going to begin work on mounting
the guns at once. I am going to use the Newton recoil check," he added.
"Ned, here, is responsible for that."

"Is that so?" asked the lieutenant, as Tom clapped his chum on the back.

"Yes, that's his invention."

"Oh, it isn't anything of the sort," Ned objected. "I just--"

"Yes, he just happened to solve the problem for me!" interrupted Tom,
as he told the story of the door-spring.

"A good idea!" commented Lieutenant Marbury.

Tom then briefly described the principle on which his aerial warship
would work, explaining how the lifting gas would raise it, with its
load of crew, guns and explosives, high into the air; how it could then
be sent ahead, backward, to either side, or around in a circle, by
means of the propellers and the rudders, and how it could be raised or
lowered, either by rudders or by forcing more gas into the lifting
bags, or by letting some of the vapor out.

And, while this was being done by the pilot or captain in charge, the
crew could be manning the guns with which hostile airships would be
attacked, and bombs dropped on the forts or battleships of the enemy.

"It seems very complete," observed the lieutenant. "I shall be glad
when I can give it an official test."

"Which ought to be in about a week," Tom said. "Meanwhile I shall be
glad if you will be my guest here."

And so that was arranged.

Leaving Ned and the lieutenant to entertain each other, Tom went to see
the mechanics who had applied for places. He found them satisfactory
and engaged them. One of them had worked for him before. The other was
a stranger, but he had been employed in a large aeroplane factory, and
brought good recommendations.

There followed busy days at the Swift plant, and work was pushed on the
aerial warship. The hardest task was the mounting of the guns, and
equipping them with the recoil check, without which it would be
impossible to fire them with the craft sailing through the air.

But finally one of the big guns, and two of the smaller ones were in
place, with the apparatus designed to reduce the recoil shock, and then
Tom decided to have a test of the Mars.

"Up in the air, do you mean?" asked Ned, who was spending all his spare
time with his chum.

"Well, a little way up in the air, at least," Tom answered.  "I'll make
a sort of captive balloon of my craft, and see how she behaves. I don't
want to take too many chances with that new recoil check, though it
seems to work perfectly in theory."

The day came when, for the first time, the Mars was to come out of the
big shed where she had been constructed. The craft was not completed
for a flight as yet, but could be made so in a few days, with rush
work. The roof of the great shed slid back, and the big envelope
containing the buoyant gas rose slowly upward.  There was a cry of
surprise from the many workmen in the yard, as they saw, most of them
for the first time, the wonderful new craft. It did not go up very
high, being held in place with anchor ropes.

The sun glistened on the bright brass and nickel parts, and glinted
from the gleaming barrels of the quick-firing guns.

"That's enough!" Tom called to the men below, who were paying out the
ropes from the windlasses. "Hold her there."

Tom, Ned, Lieutenant Marbury and Mr. Damon were aboard the captive Mars.

Looking about, to see that all was in readiness, Tom gave orders to
load the guns, blank charges being used, of course.

The recoil apparatus was in place, and it now remained to see if it
would do the work for which it was designed.

"All ready?" asked the young inventor.

"Bless my accident insurance policy!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "I'm as
ready as ever I shall be, Tom. Let 'em go!"

"Hold fast!" cried Tom, as he prepared to press the electrical switch
which would set off the guns. Ned and Lieutenant Marbury stood near the
indicators to notice how much of the recoil would be neutralized by the
check apparatus.

"Here we go!" cried the young inventor, and, at the same moment, from
down below on the ground, came a warning cry:

"Don't shoot, Massa Tom. Don't shoot! Mah mule, Boomerang--"

But Eradicate had spoken too late. Tom pressed the switch; there was a
deafening crash, a spurt of flame, and then followed wild cries and
confused shouts, while the echoes of the reports rolled about the hills
surrounding Shopton.




CHAPTER X

THE NEW MEN


"What was the matter down there?"

"Was anyone hurt?"

"Don't forget to look at those pressure gauges!"

"Bless my ham sandwich!"

Thus came the cries from those aboard the captive Mars. Ned, Lieutenant
Marbury and Tom had called out in the order named.  And, of course, I
do not need to tell you what remark Mr. Damon made. Tom glanced toward
where Ned and the government man stood, and saw that they had made
notes of the pressure recorded on the recoil checks directly after the
guns were fired. Mr. Damon, blessing innumerable objects under his
breath, was looking over the side of the rail to discover the cause of
the commotion and cries of warning from below.

"I don't believe it was anything serious, Tom," said the odd man. "No
one seems to be hurt." "Look at Eradicate!" suddenly exclaimed Ned.

"And his mule! I guess that's what the trouble was, Tom!"

They looked to where the young bank employee pointed, and saw the old
colored man, seated on the seat of his ramshackle wagon, doing his best
to pull down to a walk the big galloping mule, which was dragging the
vehicle around in a circle.

"Whoa, dere!" Eradicate was shouting, as he pulled on the lines. "Whoa,
dere! Dat's jest laik yo', Boomerang, t' run when dere ain't no call
fo' it, nohow! Ef I done wanted yo' t' git a move on, yo'd lay down
'side de road an' go to sleep. Whoa, now!"

But the noise of the shots had evidently frightened the long-eared
animal, and he was in no mood for stopping, now that he had once
started. It was not until some of the workmen ran out from the group
where they had gathered to watch Tom's test, and got in front of
Boomerang, that they succeeded in bringing him to a halt.

Eradicate climbed slowly down from the seat, and limped around until he
stood in front of his pet.

"Yo'--yo're a nice one, ain't yo'?" he demanded in sarcastic tones.
"Yo' done enough runnin' in a few minutes fo' a week ob Sundays, an'
now I won't be able t' git a move out ob ye! I'se ashamed ob yo', dat's
what I is! Puffickly ashamed ob yo'. Go 'long, now, an' yo' won't git
no oats dish yeah day! No sah!" and, highly indignant, Eradicate led
the now slowly-ambling mule off to the stable.

"I won't shoot again until you have him shut up, Rad!" laughed Tom. "I
didn't know you were so close when I set off those guns."

"Dat's all right, Massa Tom," was the reply. "I done called t' you t'
wait, but yo' didn't heah me, I 'spects. But it doan't mattah, now.
Shoot all yo' laik, Boomerang won't run any mo' dis week. He done
runned his laigs off now. Shoot away!"

But Tom was not quite ready to do this. He wanted to see what effect
the first shots had had on his aerial warship, and to learn whether or
not the newly devised recoil check had done what was expected of it.

"No more shooting right away," called the young inventor. "I want to
see how we made out with the first round. How did she check up, Ned?"

"Fine, as far as I can tell."

"Yes, indeed," added Lieutenant Marbury. "The recoil was hardly
noticeable, though, of course, with the full battery of guns in use, it
might be more so."

"I hope not," answered Tom. "I haven't used the full strength of the
recoil check yet. I can tune it up more, and when I do, and when I have
it attached to all the guns, big and little, I think we'll do the
trick. But now for a harder test."

The rest of that day was spent in trying out the guns, firing them with
practice and service charges, though none of the shells used contained
projectiles. It would not have been possible to shoot these, with the
Mars held in place in the midst of Tom's factory buildings.

"Well, is she a success, Tom?" asked Ned, when the experimenting was
over for the time being.

"I think I can say so--yes," was the answer, with a questioning look at
the officer.

"Indeed it is--a great success! We must give the Newton shock absorber
due credit."

Ned blushed with pleasure.

"It was only my suggestion," he said. "Tom worked it all out."

"But I needed the suggestion to start with," the young inventor replied.

"Of course something may develop when you take your craft high in the
air, and discharge the guns there," said the lieutenant.  "In a
rarefied atmosphere the recoil check may not be as effective as at the
earth's surface. But, in such case doubtless, you can increase the
strength of the springs and the hydrostatic valves."

"Yes, I counted on that," Tom explained. "I shall have to work out that
formula, though, and be ready for it. But, on the whole, I am pretty
well satisfied."

"And indeed you may well feel that way," commented the government
official.

The Mars was hauled back into the shed, and the roof slid shut over the
craft. Much yet remained to do on it, but now that Tom was sure the
important item of armament was taken care of, he could devote his
entire time to the finishing touches.

As his plant was working on several other pieces of machinery, some of
it for the United States Government, and some designed for his own use,
Tom found himself obliged to hire several new hands. An advertisement
in a New York newspaper brought a large number of replies, and for a
day or two Tom was kept busy sifting out the least desirable, and
arranging to see those whose answers showed they knew something of the
business requirements.

Meanwhile Lieutenant Marbury remained as Tom's guest, and was helpful
in making suggestions that would enable the young inventor to meet the
government's requirements.

"I'd like, also, to get on the track of those spies who, I am sure,
wish to do you harm," said the lieutenant, "but clues seem to be scarce
around here."

"They are, indeed," agreed Tom. "I guess the way in which we handled
that fire in the red shed sort of discouraged them."

Lieutenant Marbury shook his head.

"They're not so easily discouraged as that," he remarked. "And, with
the situation in Europe growing more acute every day, I am afraid some
of those foreigners will take desperate measures to gain their ends."

"What particular ends do you mean?"

"Well, I think they will either try to so injure you that you will not
be able to finish this aerial warship, or they will damage the craft
itself, steal your plans, or damage some of your other inventions."

"But what object would they have in doing such a thing?" Tom wanted to
know. "How would that help France, Germany or Russia, to do me an
injury?"

"They are seeking to strike at the United States through you," was the
answer. "They don't want Uncle Sam to have such formidable weapons as
your great searchlight, the giant cannon, or this new warship of the
clouds."

"But why not, as long as the United States does not intend to go to war
with any of the foreign nations?" Tom inquired.

"No, it is true we do not intend to go to war with any of the
conflicting European nations," admitted Lieutenant Marbury, "but you
have no idea how jealous each of those foreign nations is of all the
others. Each one fears that the United States will cease to be neutral,
and will aid one or the other."

"Oh, so that's it?" exclaimed Tom.

"Yes, each nation, which may, at a moments notice, be drawn into a war
with one or more rival nations, fears that we may throw in our lot with
its enemies."

"And, to prevent that, they want to destroy some of my inventions?"
asked Tom.

"That's the way I believe it will work out. So you must be careful,
especially since you have taken on so many new men."

"That's so," agreed the young inventor. "I have had to engage more
strangers than ever before, for I am anxious to get the Mars finished
and give it a good test. And, now that you have mentioned it, there are
some of those men of whom I am a bit suspicious."

"Have they done anything to make you feel that way?" asked the
lieutenant.

"Well, not exactly; it is more their bearing, and the manner in which
they go about the works. I must keep my eye on them, for it takes only
a few discontented men to spoil a whole shop full. I will be on my
guard."

"And not only about your new airship and other inventions," said the
officer, "but about yourself, personally. Will you do that?"

"Yes, though I don't imagine anything like that will happen."

"Well, be on your guard, at all events," warned Lieutenant Marbury.

As Tom had said, he had been obliged to hire a number of new men. Some
of these were machinists who had worked for him, or his father, on
previous occasions, and, when tasks were few, had been dismissed, to go
to other shops. These men, Tom felt sure, could be relied upon.

But there were a number of others, from New York, and other large
cities, of whom Tom was not so sure.

"You have more foreigners than I ever knew you to hire before, Tom,"
his father said to him one day, coming back from a tour of the shops.

"Yes, I have quite a number," Tom admitted. "But they are all good
workmen. They stood the test."

"Yes, some of them are too good," observed the older inventor.  "I saw
one of them making up a small motor the other day, and he was winding
the armature a new way. I spoke to him about it, and he tried to prove
that his way was an improvement on yours. Why, he'd have had it
short-circuited in no time if I hadn't stopped him."

"Is that so?" asked Tom. "That is news to me. I must look into this."

"Are any of the new men employed on the Mars?" Mr. Swift asked.

"No, not yet, but I shall have to shift some there from other work I
think, in order to get finished on time."

"Well, they will bear watching I think," his father said.

"Why, have you seen anything--do you--" began the young man, for Mr.
Swift had not been told of the suspicions of the lieutenant.

"Oh, it isn't anything special," the older inventor went on.  "Only I
wouldn't let a man I didn't know much about get too much knowledge of
my latest invention."

"I won't, Dad. Thanks for telling me. This latest craft is sure going
to be a beauty."

"Then you think it will work, Tom?"

"I'm sure of it, Dad!"

Mr. Swift shook his head in doubt.




CHAPTER XI

A DAY OFF


Tom Swift pondered long and intently over what his father had said to
him. He sat for several minutes in his private office, after the aged
inventor had passed out, reviewing in his mind the talk just finished.

"I wonder," said Tom slowly, "if any of the new men could have obtained
work here for the purpose of furthering that plot the lieutenant
suspects? I wonder if that could be true?"

And the more Tom thought of it, the more he was convinced that such a
thing was at least possible.

"I must make a close inspection, and weed out any suspicious
characters," he decided, "though I need every man I have working now,
to get the Mars finished in time. Yes, I must look into this."

Tom had reached a point in his work where he could leave much to his
helpers. He had several good foremen, and, with his father to take
general supervision over more important details, the young inventor had
more time to himself. Of course he did not lay too many burdens on his
father's shoulders since Mr. Swift's health was not of the best.

But Tom's latest idea, the aerial warship, was so well on toward
completion that his presence was not needed in that shop more than two
or three times a day.

"When I'm not there I'll go about in the other shops, and sort of size
up the situation," he decided. "I may be able to get a line on some of
those plotters, if there are any here."

Lieutenant Marbury had departed for a time, to look after some personal
matters, but he was to return inside of a week, when it was hoped to
give the aerial warship its first real test in flight, and under some
of the conditions that it would meet with in actual warfare.

As Tom was about to leave his office, to put into effect his new
resolution to make a casual inspection of the other shops, he met Koku,
the giant, coming in. Koku's hands and face were black with oil and
machine filings.

"Well, what have you been doing?" Tom wanted to know. "Did you have an
accident?" For Koku had no knowledge of machinery, and could not even
be trusted to tighten up a simple nut by himself.  But if some one
stood near him, and directed him how to apply his enormous strength,
Koku could do more than several machines.

"No accident, Master," he replied. "I help man lift that hammer-hammer
thing that pounds so. It get stuck!"

"What, the hammer of the drop forger?" cried Tom. "Was that out of
order again?"

"Him stuck," explained Koku simply.

There was an automatic trip-hammer in one of the shops, used for
pounding out drop forgings, and this hammer seemed to take especial
delight in getting out of order. Very often it jammed, or "stuck," as
Koku described it, and if the hammer could not be forced back on the
channel or upright guide-plates, it meant that it must be taken apart,
and valuable time lost. Once Koku had been near when the hammer got out
of order, and while the workmen were preparing to dismantle it, the
giant seized the big block of steel, and with a heave of his mighty
shoulders forced it back on the guides.

"And is that what you did this time?" asked Tom.

"Yes, Master. Me fix hammer," Koku answered. "I get dirty, I no care.
Man say I no can fix. I show him I can!"

"What man said that?"

"Man who run hammer. Ha! I lift him by one finger! He say he no like to
work on hammer. He want to work on airship. I tell him I tell you,
maybe you give him job--he baby! Koku can work hammer.  Me fix it when
it get stuck."

"Well, maybe you know what you're talking about, but I don't," said
Tom, with a pleasant smile at his big helper. "Come on, Koku, we'll go
see what it all means."

"Koku work hammer, maybe?" asked the giant hope fully.

"Well, I'll see," half promised Tom. "If it's going to get out of gear
all the while it might pay me to keep you at it so you could get it
back in place whenever it kicked up a fuss, and so save time. I'll see
about it."

Koku led the way to the shop where the triphammer was installed. It was
working perfectly now, as Tom could tell by the thundering blows it
struck. The man operating it looked up as Tom approached, and, at a
gesture from the young inventor, shut off the power.

"Been having trouble here?" asked Tom, noting that the workman was one
of the new hands he had hired.

"Yes, sir, a little," was the respectful answer. "This hammer goes on a
strike every now and then, and gets jammed. Your giant there forced it
back into place, which is more than I could do with a big bar for a
lever. He sure has some muscle."

"Yes," agreed Tom, "he's pretty strong.  But what's this you said about
wanting to give up this job, and go on the airship construction."

The man turned red under his coat of grime.

"I didn't intend him to repeat that to you, Mr. Swift," he said. "I was
a little put out at the way this hammer worked. I lose so much time at
it that I said I'd like to be transferred to the airship department.
I've worked in one before. But I'm not making a kick," he added quickly.
"Work is too scarce for that."

"I understand," said Tom. "I have been thinking of making a change.
Koku seems to like this hammer, and knows how to get it in order once
it gets off the guides. You say you have had experience in airship
construction?"

"Yes, sir. I've worked on the engines, and on the planes."

"Know anything about dirigible balloons?"

"Yes, I've worked on them, too, but the engineering part is my
specialty. I'm a little out of my element on a trip-hammer."

"I see. Well, perhaps I'll give you a trial. Meanwhile you might break
Koku in on operating this machine. If I transfer you I'll put him on
this hammer."

"Thank you, Mr. Swift! I'll show him all I know about it. Oh, there
goes the hammer again!" he exclaimed, for, as he started it up, as Tom
turned away, the big piece of steel once more jammed on the
channel-plates.

"Me fix!" exclaimed the giant eagerly, anxious for a chance to exhibit
his great strength.

"Wait a minute!" exclaimed Tom. "I want to get a look at that machine."

He inspected it carefully before he signaled for Koku to force the
hammer back into place. But, if Tom saw anything suspicious, he said
nothing. There was, however, a queer look on his face as he turned
aside, and he murmured to himself, as he walked away:

"So you want to be transferred to the airship department, do you? Well,
we'll see about that. We'll see."

Tom had more problems to solve than those of making an aerial warship
that would be acceptable to the United States Government.

Ned Newton called on his chum that evening. The two talked of many
things, gradually veering around to the subject uppermost in Tom's
mind--his new aircraft.

"You're thinking too much of that." Ned warned him. "You're as bad as
the time you went for your first flight."

"I suppose I am," admitted Tom. "But the success of the Mars means a
whole lot to me. And that's something I nearly forgot.  I've got to go
out to the shop now. Want to come along, Ned?"

"Sure, though I tell you that you're working too hard--burning the
electric light at both ends."

"This is just something simple," Tom said. "It won't take long."

He went out, followed by his chum.

"But this isn't the way to the airship shed," objected the young bank
clerk, as he noted in which direction Tom was leading him.

"I know it isn't," Tom replied. "But I want to look at one of the
trip-hammers in the forge shop when none of the men is around. I've
been having a little trouble there."

"Trouble!" exclaimed his chum. "Has that plot Lieutenant Marbury spoke
of developed?"

"Not exactly. This is something else," and Tom told of the trouble with
the big hammer.

"I had an idea," the young inventor said, "that the man at the machine
let it get out of order purposely, so I'd change him. I want to see if
my suspicions are correct."

Tom carefully inspected the hammer by the light of a powerful portable
electric lamp Ned held.

"Ha! There it is!" Tom suddenly exclaimed.

"Something wrong?" Ned inquired.

"Yes. This is what's been throwing the hammer off the guides all the
while," and Tom pulled out a small steel bolt that had been slipped
into an oil hole. A certain amount of vibration, he explained to Ned,
would rattle the bolt out so that it would force the hammer to one
side, throwing it off the channel-plates, and rendering it useless for
the time being.

"A foxy trick," commented Tom. "No wonder the machine got out of kilter
so easily."

"Do you think it was done purposely?"

"Well, I'm not going to say.  But I'm going to watch that man.  He
wants to be transferred to the airship department. He put this in the
hammer, perhaps, to have an excuse for a change. Well, I'll give it to
him."

"You don't mean that you'd take a fellow like that and put him to work
on your new aerial warship, do you, Tom?"

"Yes, I think I will, Ned. You see, I look at it this way: I haven't
any real proof against him now. He could only laugh at me if I accused
him. But you've heard the proverb about giving a calf rope enough and
he'll hang himself, haven't you?"

"I think I have."

"Well, I'm going to give this fellow a little rope. I'll transfer him,
as he asks, and I'll keep a close watch on him."

"But won't it be risky?"

"Perhaps, but no more so than leaving him in here to work mischief. If
he is hatching a plot, the sooner it's over with the better I shall
like it. I don't like a shot to hang fire. I'm warned now, and I'll be
ready for him. I have a line on whom to suspect. This is the first
clue," and Tom held up the incriminating bolt.

"I think you're taking too big a risk, Tom," his chum said.  "Why not
discharge the man?"

"Because that might only smooth things over for a time. If this plot is
being laid the sooner it comes to a head, and breaks, the better. Have
it done, short, sharp and quick, is my motto. Yes, I'll shift him in
the morning. Oh, but I wish it was all over, and the Mars was accepted
by Uncle Sam!" and Tom put his hand to his head with a tired gesture.

"Say, old man!" exclaimed Ned, "what you want is a day off, and I'm
going to see that you get it. You need a little vacation."

"Perhaps I do," assented Tom wearily.

"Then you'll have it!" cried Ned. "There's going to be a little picnic
to-morrow. Why can't you go with Mary Nestor? She'd like you to take
her, I'm sure. Her cousin, Helen Randall, is on from New York, and she
wants to go, also."

"How do you know?" asked Tom quickly.

"Because she said so," laughed Ned. "I was over to the house to call. I
have met Helen before, and I suggested that you and I would take the
two girls, and have a day off. You'll come, won't you?"

"Well, I don't know," spoke Tom slowly. "I ought to--"

"Nonsense! Give up work for one day!" urged Ned. "Come along.  It'll do
you good--get the cobwebs out of your head."

"All right, I'll go," assented Tom, after a moment's thought.

The next day, having instructed his father and the foremen to look well
to the various shops, and having seen that the work on the new aerial
warship was progressing favorably, Tom left for a day's outing with his
chum and the two girls.

The picnic was held in a grove that surrounded a small lake, and after
luncheon the four friends went for a ride in a launch Tom hired. They
went to the upper end of the lake, in rather a pretty but lonesome
locality.

"Tom, you look tired," said Mary. "I'm sure you've been working too
hard!"

"Why, I'm not working any harder than usual," Tom insisted.

"Yes, he is, too!" declared Ned, "and he's running more chances, too."

"Chances?" repeated Mary.

"Oh, that's all bosh!" laughed Tom. "Come on, let's go ashore and walk."

"That suits me," spoke Ned. Helen and Mary assented, and soon the four
young persons were strolling through the shady wood.

After a bit the couples became separated, and Tom found himself walking
beside Mary in a woodland path. The girl glanced at her companion's
face, and ventured:

"A penny for your thoughts, Tom."

"They're worth more than that," he replied gallantly. "I was thinking
of--you."

"Oh, how nicely you say it!" she laughed. "But I know better!  You're
puzzling over some problem. Tell me, what did Ned mean when he hinted
at danger? Is there any, Tom?"

"None at all," he assured her. "It's just a sort of notion--"

Mary made a sudden gesture of silence.

"Hark!" she whispered to Tom, "I heard someone mention your name then.
Listen!"




CHAPTER XII

A NIGHT ALARM


Mary Nestor spoke with such earnestness, and her action in catching
hold of Tom's arm to enjoin silence was so pronounced that, though he
had at first regarded the matter in the light of a joke, he soon
thought otherwise. He glanced from the girl's face to the dense
underbrush on either side of the woodland path.

"What is it, Mary?" he asked in a whisper.

"I don't just know. I heard whispering, and thought it was the rustling
of the leaves of the trees. Then someone spoke your name quite loudly.
Didn't you hear it?"

Tom shook his head in negation.

"It may be Ned and his friend," he whispered, his lips close to Mary's
ear.

"I think not," was her answer. "Listen; there it is again."

Distinctly then, Tom heard, from some opening in the screen of bushes,
his own name spoken. "Did you hear it?" asked Mary, barely forming the
words with her lips. But Tom could read their motion.

"Yes," he nodded. Then, motioning to Mary to remain where she was, he
stepped forward, taking care to tread only on grassy places where there
were no little twigs or branches to break and betray his presence. He
was working his way toward the sound of the unseen voice.

There was a sudden movement in the bushes, just beyond the spot Tom was
making for. He halted quickly and peered ahead. Mary, too, was looking
on anxiously.

Tom saw the forms of two men, partially concealed by bushes, walking
away from him. The men took no pains to conceal their movements, so Tom
was emboldened to advance with less caution. He hurried to where he
could get a good view, and, at the sight of one of the men, he uttered
an exclamation.

"What is it?" asked Mary, who was now at his side. She had seen that
Tom had thrown aside caution, and she had come up to join him.

"That man--I know him!" the young inventor exclaimed. "It is
Feldman--the one who wanted to be changed from the trip-hammer to the
airship department. But who is that with him?"

As Tom spoke the other turned, and at the sight of his face Mary Nestor
said:

"He looks like a Frenchman, with that little mustache and imperial."

"So he is!" exclaimed Tom, in a hoarse whisper. "He must be the
Frenchman that Eradicate spoke about. I wonder what this can mean? I
didn't know Feldman had left the shop."

"You may know what you're talking about, but I don't, Tom," said Mary,
with a smile at her companion. "Are they friends of yours?"

"Hardly," spoke the young inventor dryly. "That one, Feldman, is one of
my workmen. He had charge of a drop-forge press and trip-hammer that--"

"Spare me the details, Tom!" interrupted Mary. "You know I don't
understand a thing about machinery. The wireless you erected on
Earthquake Island was as much as I could comprehend."

"Well, a trip-hammer isn't as complicated as that," spoke Tom, with a
laugh, as he noticed that the two men were far enough away so they
could not hear him. "What I was going to say was, that one of those men
works in our shops. The other I don't know, but I agree with you that
he does look like a Frenchman, and old Eradicate had a meeting with a
man whom he described as being of that nationality."

"And you say they are not friends of yours?"

"I have no reason to believe they are."

"Then they must be enemies!" exclaimed Mary with quick intuition. "Oh,
Tom, you will be careful, won't you?"

"Of course I will, little girl," he said, a note of fondness creeping
into his voice, as he covered the small hand with his own large one.
"But there is no danger."

"Then why were these men discussing you?"

"I don't know that they were, Mary."

"They mentioned your name."

"Well, that may be. Probably one of them, Feldman, who works for me,
was speaking to his companion about the chance for a position. My
father and I employ a number of men, you know."

"Well, I suppose it is all right, Tom, and I surely hope it is.  But
you will be careful, won't you?  And you look more worried than you
used to. Has anything gone wrong?"

"Not a thing, little girl. Everything is going fine. My new aerial
warship will soon make a trial flight, and I'd be pleased to have you
as a passenger."

"Would you really, Tom?"

"Of course. Consider that you have the first invitation."

"That's awfully nice of you. But you do look worried, Tom. Has anything
troubled you?"

"No, not much. Everything is going all right now. We did have a little
trouble at a fire in one of my buildings--"

"A fire! Oh, Tom! You never told me!"

"Well, it didn't amount to much--the only suspicious fact about it was
that it seemed to have been of incendiary origin."

Mary seemed much alarmed, and again begged Tom to be on his guard,
which he promised to do. Had Mary known the warnings uttered by
Lieutenant Marbury she might have had more occasion for worry.

"Do you suppose that hammer man of yours came to these woods to meet
that Frenchman and talk about you, Tom?" asked his companion, when the
two men had strolled out of sight, and the young people were on their
way back to the launch.

"Well, it's possible. I have been warned that foreign spies are trying
to get hold of some of my patents, and also to hamper the government in
the use of some others I have sold. But they'll have their own troubles
to get away with anything. The works are pretty well guarded, and you
forget I have the giant, Koku, who is almost a personal bodyguard."

"Yes, but he can't be everywhere at once. Oh, you will be careful,
won't you, Tom?"

"Yes, Mary, I will," promised the young inventor. "But don't say
anything to Ned about what we just saw and heard."

"Why not?"

"Because he's been at me to hire a couple of detectives to watch over
me, and this would give him another excuse. Just don't say anything,
and I'll adopt all the precautions I think are needful."

"I will on condition that you do that."

"And I promise I will."

With that Mary had to be content. A little later they joined Ned and
his friend, and soon they were moving swiftly down the lake in the
launch.

"Well, hasn't it done you good to take a day off?" Ned demanded of his
chum, when they were on their homeward way.

"Yes, I think it has," agreed Tom.

"You swung your thoughts into a new channel, didn't you?"

"Oh, yes, I found something new to think about," admitted the young
inventor, with a quick look at Mary.

But, though Tom thus passed off lightly the little incident of the day,
he gave it serious thought when he was alone.

"Those fellows were certainly talking about me," he reasoned.  "I
wonder what for? And Feldman left the shop without my knowledge. I'll
have to look into that. I wonder if that Frenchy looking chap I saw was
the one who tried to pump Eradicate?  Another point to settle."

The last was easily disposed of, for, on reaching his shops that
afternoon, Tom cross-questioned the colored man, and obtained a most
accurate description of the odd foreigner. It tallied in every detail
with the man Tom had seen in the woods.

"And now about Feldman," mused Tom, as he went to the foreman of the
shop where the suspected man had been employed.

"Yes, Feldman asked for a day off," the foreman said in response to
Tom's question. "He claimed his mother was sick, and he wanted to go to
see her. I knew you wouldn't object, as we were not rushed in his
department."

"Oh, that's all right," said Tom quickly. "Did he say where his mother
lived?"

"Over Lafayette way."

"Humph!" murmured Tom. To himself he added: "Queer that he should be
near Lake Loraine, in an opposite direction from Lafayette. This will
bear an investigation."

The next day Tom made it his business to pass near the hammer that was
so frequently out of order. He found Feldman busy instructing Koku in
its operation. Tom resolved on a little strategy.

"How is it working, Feldman?" he asked.

"Very well, Mr. Swift. There doesn't seem to be any trouble at all, but
it may happen any minute. Koku seems to take to it like a duck to
water."

"Well, when he is ready to assume charge let me know."

"And then am I to go into the aeroplane shop?"

"I'll see. By the way, how is your mother?" he asked quickly, looking
Feldman full in the face.

"She is much better. I took a day off yesterday to go to see her," the
man replied quietly enough, and without sign of embarrassment.

"That's good. Let me see, she lives over near Lake Loraine, doesn't
she?"

This time Feldman could not repress a start. But he covered it
admirably by stooping over to pick up a tool that fell to the floor.

"No, my mother is in Lafayette," he said. "I don't know where Lake
Loraine is."

"Oh," said Tom, as he turned aside to hide a smile. He was sure now he
knew at least one of the plotters.

But Tom was not yet ready to show his hand. He wanted better evidence
than any he yet possessed. It would take a little more time.

Work on the aerial warship was rushed, and it seemed likely that a
trial flight could be made before the date set. Lieutenant Marbury sent
word that he would be on hand when needed, and in some of the shops,
where fittings for the Mars were being made, night and day shifts were
working.

"Well, if everything goes well, we'll take her for a trial flight
to-morrow," said Tom, coming in from the shops one evening.

"Guns and all?" asked Ned, who had come over to pay his chum a visit.
Mr. Damon was also on hand, invoking occasional blessings.

"Guns and all," replied Tom.

Ned had a little vacation from the bank, and was to stay all night, as
was Mr. Damon.

What time it was, save that it must be near midnight, Tom could not
tell, but he was suddenly awakened by hearing yells from Eradicate:

"Massa Tom! Massa Tom!" yelled the excited colored man. "Git up! Git
up! Suffin' turrible am happenin' in de balloon shop.  Hurry! An' yo'
stan' still, Boomerang, or I'll twist yo' tail, dat's what I will!
Hurry, Massa Tom!"

Tom leaped out of bed.




CHAPTER XIII

THE CAPTURE


Tom Swift was something like a fireman. He had lived so long in an
atmosphere of constant alarms and danger, that he was always ready for
almost any emergency. His room was equipped with the end in view that
he could act promptly and effectively.

So, when he heard Eradicate's alarm, though he wondered what the old
colored man was doing out of bed at that hour, Tom did not stop to
reason out that puzzle. He acted quickly.

His first care was to throw on the main switch, connected with a big
storage battery, and to which were attached the wires of the lighting
system. This at once illuminated every shop in the plant, and also the
grounds themselves. Tom wanted to see what was going on. The use of a
storage battery eliminated the running of the dynamo all night.

And once he had done this, Tom began pulling on some clothes and a pair
of shoes. At the same time he reached out with one hand and pressed a
button that sounded an alarm in the sleeping quarters of Koku, the
giant, and in the rooms of some of the older and most trusted men.

All this while Eradicate was shouting away, down in the yard.

"Massa Tom! Massa Tom!" he called. "Hurry! Hurry! Dey is killin' Koku!"

"Killing Koku!" exclaimed Tom, as he finished his hasty dressing. "Then
my giant must already be in the fracas. I wonder what it's all about,
anyhow."

"What's up, Tom?" came Ned's voice from the adjoining room. "I thought
I heard a noise."

"Your thoughts do you credit, Ned!" Tom answered. "If you listen right
close, you'll hear several noises."

"By Jove! You're right, old man!"

Tom could hear his chum bound out of bed to the floor, and, at the same
time, from the big shed where Tom was building his aerial warship came
a series of yells and shouts.

"That's Koku's voice!" Tom exclaimed, as he recognized the tones of the
giant.

"I'm coming, Tom!" Ned informed his chum. "Wait a minute."

"No time to wait," Tom replied, buttoning his coat as he sped down the
hall.

"Oh, Tom, what is it?" asked Mrs. Baggert, the housekeeper, looking
from her room.

"I don't know. But don't let dad get excited, no matter what happens.
Just put him off until I come back. I think it isn't anything serious."

Mr. Damon, who roomed next to Ned, came out of his own apartment
partially dressed.

"Bless my suspenders!" he cried to Tom, those articles just then
dangling over his hips. "What is it? What has happened?  Bless my steam
gauge, don't tell me it's a fire!"

"I think it isn't that," Tom answered. "No alarm has rung. Koku seems
to be in trouble."

"Well, he's big enough to look after himself, that's one consolation,"
chuckled Mr. Damon. "I'll be right with you."

By this time Ned had run out into the hall, and, together, he and Tom
sped down the corridor. They could not hear the shouts of Eradicate so
plainly now, as he was on the other side of the house.

But when the two young men reached the front porch, they could hear the
yells given with redoubled vigor. And, in the glare of the electric
lights, Tom saw Eradicate leading along Boomerang, the old mule.

"What is it, Rad? What is it?" demanded the young inventor breathlessly.

"Trouble, Massa Tom! Dat's what it am! Trouble!"

"I know that--but what kind?"

"De worstest kind, I 'spects, Massa Tom. Listen to it!"

From the interior of the big shed, not far from the house, Tom and Ned
heard a confused jumble of shouts, cries and pleadings, mingled with
the rattle of pieces of metal, and the banging of bits of wood. And,
above all that, like the bellowing of a bull, was noted the rumbling
voice of Koku, the giant.

"Come on, Ned!" Tom cried.

"It's suah trouble, all right," went on Eradicate. "Mah mule,
Boomerang, had a touch ob de colic, an' I got up t' gib him some hot
drops an' walk him around, when I heard de mostest terrific
racket-sound, and den I 'spected trouble was comm."

"It isn't coming--it's here!" called Tom, as he sped toward the big
shop. Ned was but a step behind him. The big workshop where the aerial
warship was being built was, like the other buildings, brilliantly
illuminated by the lights Tom had switched on. The young inventor also
saw several of his employees speeding toward the same point.

Tom was the first to reach the small door of the shed. This was built
in one of the two large main doors, which could be swung open when it
was desired to slide the Mars in from the ground, and not admit it
through the roof.

"Look!" cried Tom, pointing.

Ned looked over his chum's shoulder and saw the giant, Koku, struggling
with four men--powerful men they were, too, and they seemed bent on
mischief.

For they came at Koku from four sides, seeking to hold his hands and
feet so that he could not fight them back. On the floor near where the
struggle was taking place was a coil of rope, and it was evident that
it had been the intention of the men to overcome Koku and truss him up,
so that he would not interfere with what they intended to do. But Koku
was a match for even the four men, powerful as they were.

"We're here, Koku!" cried Tom. "Watch for an opening, Ned!" he called
to his chum.

The sound of Tom's voice disconcerted at least two of the attackers,
for they looked around quickly, and this was fatal to their chances.

Though such a big man, Koku was exceptionally quick, and no sooner did
he see his advantage, as two of the men turned their gaze away from
him, than he seized it.

Suddenly tearing loose his hands from the grip of the two men who had
looked around, Koku shot out his right and left fists, and secured good
hold on the necks of two of his enemies. The other two, at his back,
were endeavoring to pull him over, but the giant's sturdy legs still
held.

So big was Koku's hands that they almost encircled the necks of his
antagonists. Then happened a curious thing.

With a shout that might have done credit to some ancient cave-dweller
of the stone age, Koku spread out his mighty arms, and held apart the
two men he had grasped. In vain they struggled to free themselves from
that terrible grip. Their faces turned purple, and their eyes bulged
out.

"He's choking them to death!" shouted Ned.

But Koku was not needlessly cruel.

A moment later, with a quick and sudden motion he bent his arms,
bringing toward each other the two men he held as captives.  Their
heads came together with a dull thud, and a second later Koku allowed
two limp bodies to slip from his grip to the floor.

"He's done for them!" Tom cried. "Knocked them unconscious.  Good for
you, Koku!"

The giant grunted, and then, with a quick motion, slung himself around,
hoping to bring the enemies at his back within reach of his powerful
arms. But there was no need of this.

As soon as the other two ruffians had seen their companions fall to the
floor of the shop they turned and fled, leaping from an open window.

"There they go!" cried Ned.

"Some of the other men can chase them," said the young inventor. "We'll
tie up the two Koku has captured."

As he approached nearer to the unconscious captives Tom uttered a cry
of surprise, for he recognized them as two of the new men he had
employed.

"What can this mean?" he asked wonderingly.

He glanced toward the window through which the two men had jumped to
escape, and he was just in time to see one of them run past the open
door. The face of this one was under a powerful electric light, and Tom
at once recognized the man as Feldman, the worker who had had so much
trouble with the trip-hammer.

"This sure is a puzzle," marveled Tom. "My own men in the plot!  But
why did they attack Koku?"

The giant, bending over the men he had knocked unconscious by beating
their heads together, seemed little worse for the attack.

"We tie 'em up," he said grimly, as he brought over the rope that had
been intended for himself.




CHAPTER XIV

THE FIRST FLIGHT


Little time was lost in securing the two men who had been so
effectively rendered helpless by Koku's ready, if rough, measures. One
of them was showing signs of returning consciousness now, and Tom, not
willing to inflict needless pain, even on an enemy, told one of his
men, summoned by the alarm, to bring water. Soon the two men opened
their eyes, and looked about them in dazed fashion.

"Did--did anything hit me?" asked  one meekly.

"It must have been a thunderbolt," spoke the other dreamily.  "But it
didn't look like a storm."

"Oh, dere was a storm, all right," chuckled Eradicate, who, having left
his mule, Boomerang outside, came into the shed. "It was a giant storm
all right."

The men put their hands to their heads, and seemed to comprehend. They
looked at the rope that bound their feet. Their forearms had been
loosened to allow them to take a drink of water.

"What does this mean--Ransom--Kurdy?" asked Tom sternly, when the men
seemed able to talk. "Did you attack Koku?"

"It looks as though he had the best of us, whether we did or not," said
the man Tom knew as Kurdy. "Whew, how my head aches!"

"Me sorry," said Koku simply.

"Not half as sorry as we are," returned Ransom ruefully.

"What does it mean?" asked Tom sternly. "There were four of you.
Feldman and one other got away."

"Oh, trust Feldman for getting away," sneered Kurdy. "He always leaves
his friends in the lurch."

"Was this a conspiracy?" demanded Tom.

The two captives looked at one another, sitting bound on the floor of
the shop, their backs against some boxes.

"I guess it's all up, and we might as well make a clean breast of it,"
admitted Kurdy.

"Perhaps it would be better," said Tom quietly. "Eradicate," he went
on, to the colored man, "go to the house and tell Mrs. Baggert that
everything is all right and no one hurt."

"No one hurt, Massa Tom? What about dem dere fellers?" and the colored
man pointed to the captives.

"Well, they're not hurt much," and Tom permitted himself a little
smile. "I don't want my father to worry. Tell him everything is all
right."

"All right, Massa Tom. I'se gwine right off. I'se got t' look after mah
mule, Boomerang, too. I'se gwine," and he shuffled away.

"Who else besides Feldman got away?" asked Tom, looking alternately at
the prisoners.

They hesitated a moment about answering.

"We might as well give up, I tell you," spoke Kurdy to Ransom.

"All right, go ahead, we'll have to take our medicine. I might have
known it would turn out this way--going in for this sort of thing. It's
the first bit of crooked business I ever tried," the man said
earnestly, "and it will be the last--believe me!"

"Who was the fourth man?" Tom repeated.

"Harrison," answered Kurdy, naming one of the most efficient of the new
machinists Tom had hired during the rush.

"Harrison, who has been working on the motor?" cried the young inventor.

"Yes," said Ransom.

"I'm sorry to learn that," Tom went on in a low voice. "He was an
expert in his line. But what was your object, anyhow, in attacking
Koku?"

"We didn't intend to attack him," explained Ransom, "but he came in
when we were at work, and as he went for us we tried to stand him off.
Then your colored man heard the racket, and--well, I guess you know the
rest."

"But I don't understand why you came into this shed at night," went on
Tom. "No one is allowed in here. You had no right, and Koku knew that.
What did you want?"

"Look here!" exclaimed Kurdy, "I said we'd make a clean breast of it,
and we will. We're only a couple of tools, and we were foolish ever to
go in with those fellows; or rather, in with that Frenchman, who
promised us big money if we succeeded."

"Succeeded in what?" demanded the young inventor.

"In damaging your new aerial warship, or in getting certain parts of it
so he could take them away with him."

Tom gave a surprised whistle.

"A frenchman!" he exclaimed. "Is he one of the--?"

"Yes, he's one of the foreign spies," interrupted Ransom.  "You'd find
it out, anyhow, if we didn't tell you. They are after you, Tom Swift,
and after your machines.  They had vowed to get them by fair means or
foul, for some of the European governments are desperate."

"But we were only tools in their hands. So were Feldman and Harrison,
but they knew more about the details. We were only helping them."

"Then we must try to capture them," decided Tom. "Ned, see if the chase
had any results. I'll look after these chaps--Koku and I."

"Oh, we give in," admitted Kurdy. "We know when we've had enough," and
he rubbed his head gently where the giant had banged it against that of
his fellow-conspirator.

"Do you mean that you four came into this shop, at midnight, to damage
the Mars?" asked Tom.

"That's about it, Mr. Swift," replied Kurdy rather shamefacedly. "We
were to damage it beyond repair, set fire to the whole place, if need
be, and, at the same time, take away certain vital parts.

"Harrison, Feldman, Ransom and I came in, thinking the coast was clear.
But Koku must have seen us enter, or he suspected we were here, for he
came in after us, and the fight began. We couldn't stop him, and he did
for us. I'm rather glad of it, too, for I never liked the work. It was
only that they tempted me with a promise of big money."

"Who tempted you?" demanded Tom.

"That Frenchman--La Foy, he calls himself, and some other foreigners in
your shops."

"Are there foreigners here?" cried Tom.

"Bless my chest protector!" cried Mr. Damon, who had come in and had
been a silent listener to this. "Can it be possible?"

"That's the case," went on Kurdy. "A lot of the new men you took on are
foreign spies from different European nations. They are trying to learn
all they can about your plans, Mr. Swift!"

"Are they friendly among themselves?" asked Tom.

"No; each one is trying to get ahead of the other. So far the Frenchman
seems to have had the best of it. But to-night his plan failed."

"Tell me more about it," urged Tom.

"That's about all we know," spoke Ransom. "We were only hired to do the
rough work. Those higher up didn't appear. Feldman was only a step
above us."

"Then my suspicions of him were justified," thought Tom. "He evidently
met La Foy in the woods to make plans. But Koku and Eradicate spoiled
them."

The two captives seemed willing enough to make a confession, but they
did not know much. As they said, they were merely tools, acting for
others. And events had happened just as they had said.

The four conspirators had managed, by means of a false key, and by
disconnecting the burglar alarm, to enter the airship shed.  They were
about to proceed with their work of destruction when Koku came on the
scene.

The giant's appearance was due to accident. He acted as a sort of night
watchman, making a tour of the buildings, but he entered the shed where
the Mars was because, that day, he had left his knife in there, and
wanted to get it. Only for that he would not have gone in. When he
entered he surprised the four men.

Of course he attacked them at once, and they sprang at him.  Then
ensued a terrific fight. Eradicate, arising to doctor his mule, as he
had said, heard the noise, and saw what was going on.  He gave the
alarm.

"Well, Ned, any luck?" asked Tom, as his chum came in.

"No, they got away, Tom. I had a lot of your men out helping me search
the grounds, but it wasn't of much use."

"Particularly if you depended on some of my men," said Tom bitterly.

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that the place is filled with spies, Ned! But we will sift them
out in the morning. This has been a lucky night for me.  It was touch
and go. Now, then, Koku, take these fellows and lock them up somewhere
until morning. Ned, you and I will remain on guard here the rest of the
night."

"I'm with you, Tom."

"Will you be a bit easy on us, considering what we told you?" asked
Kurdy.

"I'll do the best I can," said Tom, gently, making no promises.

The two captives were put in secure quarters, and the rest of the night
passed quietly. During the fight in the airship shed some machinery and
tools had been broken, but no great amount of damage was done. Tom and
Ned passed the remaining hours of darkness there.

A further search was made in the morning for the two conspirators who
had escaped, but no trace of them was found. Tom then realized why
Feldman was so anxious to be placed in the aeroplane department--it was
in order that he might have easier access to the Mars.

A technical charge was made against the two prisoners, sufficient to
hold them for some time. Then Tom devoted a day to weeding out the
suspected foreigners in his place. All the new men were discharged,
though some protested against this action.

"Probably I am hitting some of the innocent in punishing those who, if
they had the chance, would become guilty," Tom said to his chum, "but
it cannot be helped--I can't afford to take any chances."

The Mars was being put in shape for her first flight. The guns, fitted
with the recoil shock absorbers, were mounted, and Lieutenant Marbury
had returned to go aloft in the big aerial warship. He congratulated
Tom on discovering at least one plot in time.

"But there may be more," he warned the young inventor. "You are not
done with them yet."

The Mars was floated out of her hangar, and made ready for an ascent.
Tom, Ned, Lieutenant Marbury, Mr. Damon, and several workmen were to be
the first passengers. Tom was busy going over the various parts to see
that nothing had been forgotten.

"Well, I guess we're ready," he finally announced. "All aboard!"

"Bless my insurance policy!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Now that the time
comes I almost wish I wasn't going."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Tom. "You're not going to back out at the last
minute. All aboard! Cast off the ropes!" he cried to the assistants.

A moment later the Mars, the biggest airship Tom Swift had ever
constructed, arose from the earth like some great bird, and soared
aloft.




CHAPTER XV

IN DANGER


"Well, Tom, we're moving!" cried Ned Newton, clapping his chum on the
back, as he stood near him in the pilot-house. "We're going up, old
sport!"

"Of course we are," replied Tom. "You didn't think it wouldn't go up,
did you?"

"Well, I wasn't quite sure," Ned confessed. "You know you were so
worried about--"

"Not about the ship sailing," interrupted Tom. "It was only the effect
the firing of the guns might have. But I think we have that taken care
of."

"Bless my pin cushion!" cried Mr. Damon, as he looked over the rail at
the earth below. "We're moving fast, Tom."

"Yes, we can make a quicker ascent in this than in most aeroplanes,"
Tom said, "for they have to go up in a slanting direction. But we can't
quite equal their lateral speed."

"Just how fast do you think you can travel when you are in first-class
shape?" asked Lieutenant Marbury, as he noted how the Mars was
behaving on this, the first trip.

"Well, I set a limit of seventy-five miles an hour," the young inventor
replied, as he shifted various levers and handles, to change the speed
of the mechanism. "But I'm afraid we won't quite equal that with all
our guns on board. But I'm safe in saying sixty, I think."

"That will more than satisfy the government requirements," the officer
said. "But, of course, your craft will have to come up to expectations
and requirements in the matter of armament."

"I'll give you every test you want," declared Tom, with a smile. "And
now we'll see what the Mars can do when put to it."

Up and up went the big dirigible aerial warship. Had you been fortunate
enough to have seen her you would have observed a craft not unlike, in
shape, the German Zeppelins. But it differed from those war balloons in
several important particulars.

Tom's craft was about six hundred feet long, and the diameter of the
gas bag, amidships, was sixty feet, slightly larger than the largest
Zeppelin. Below the bag, which, as I have explained, was made up of a
number of gas-tight compartments, hung from wire cables three cabins.
The forward one was a sort of pilot-house, containing various
instruments for navigating the ship of the air, observation rooms,
gauges for calculating firing ranges, and the steering apparatus.

Amidships, suspended below the great bag, were the living and sleeping
quarters, where food was cooked and served and where those who operated
the craft could spend their leisure time.  Extra supplies were also
stored there.

At the stern of the big bag was the motor-room, where gas was generated
to fill the balloon compartments when necessary, where the gasoline and
electrical apparatus were installed, and where the real motive power of
the craft was located. Here, also, was carried the large quantity of
gasoline and oil needed for a long voyage. The Mars could carry
sufficient fuel to last for over a week, provided no accidents occurred.

There was also an arrangement in the motor compartment, so that the
ship could be steered and operated from there. This was in case the
forward pilot-house should be shot away by an enemy.  And, also, in the
motor compartment were the sleeping quarters for the crew.

All three suspended cabins were connected by a long covered runway, so
that one could pass from the pilot-house to the motor-room and back
again through the amidship cabin.

At the extreme end of the big bag were the various rudders and planes,
designed to keep the craft on a level keel, automatically, and to
enable it to make headway against a strong wind. The motive power
consisted of three double-bladed wooden propellers, which could be
operated together or independently. A powerful gasoline engine was the
chief motive power, though there was an auxiliary storage battery,
which would operate an electrical motor and send the ship along for
more than twenty-four hours in case of accident to the gasoline engine.

There were many other pieces of apparatus aboard, some not completely
installed, the uses of which I shall mention from time to time, as the
story progresses. The gas-generating machine was of importance, for
there would be a leakage and shrinking of the vapor from the big bag,
and some means must be provided for replenishing it.

"You don't seem to have forgotten anything, Tom," said Ned admiringly,
as they soared upward.

"We can tell better after we've flown about a bit," observed the young
inventor, with a smile. "I expect we shall have to make quite a number
of changes."

"Are you going far?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Why, you're not frightened, are you?" inquired Tom. "You have been up
in airships with me before."

"Oh, no, I'm not frightened!" exclaimed the odd man. "Bless my
suspenders, no! But I promised my wife I'd be back this evening, and..."

"We'll sail over toward Waterford," broke in Tom, "and I'll drop you
down in your front yard."

"No, don't do that! Don't! I beg of you!" cried Mr. Damon. "You
see--er--Tom, my wife doesn't like me to make these trips. Of course, I
understand there is no danger, and I like them. But it's just as well
not to make her worry-you understand!"

"Oh, all right," replied Tom, with a laugh. "Well, we're not going far
on this trip. What I want to do, most of all, is to test the guns, and
see if the recoil check will work as well when we are aloft as it did
down on the ground. You know a balloon isn't a very stable base for a
gun, even one of light caliber."

"No, it certainly is not," agreed Lieutenant Marbury, "and I am
interested in seeing how you will overcome the recoil."

"We'll have a test soon," announced Tom.

Meanwhile the Mars, having reached a considerable height, being up so
far, in fact, that the village of Shopton could scarcely be
distinguished, Tom set the signal that told the engine-room force to
start the propellers. This would send them ahead.

Some of Tom's most trusted workmen formed the operating crew, the young
inventor taking charge of the pilot-house himself.

"Well she seems to run all right," observed Lieutenant Marbury, as the
big craft surged ahead just below a stratum of white, fleecy clouds.

"Yes, but not as fast as I'd like to see her go," Tom replied.  "Of
course the machinery is new, and it will take some little time for it
to wear down smooth. I'll speed her up a little now."

They had been running for perhaps ten minutes when Tom shoved over the
hand of an indicator that communicated with the engine-room from the
pilot-house. At once the Mars increased her speed.

"She can do it!" cried Ned.

"Bless my-hat! I should say so!" cried Mr. Damon, for he was standing
outside the pilot-house just then, on the "bridge," and the sudden
increase of speed lifted his hat from his head.

"There you are--caught on the fly!" cried Ned, as he put up his hand
just in time to catch the article in question.

"Thanks! Guess I'd better tie it fast," remarked the odd man, putting
his hat on tightly.

The aerial warship was put through several evolutions to test her
stability, and to each one she responded well, earning the praise of
the government officer. Up and down, to one side and the other, around
in big circles, and even reversing, Tom sent his craft with a true hand
and eye. In a speed test fifty-five miles was registered against a
slight wind, and the young inventor said he knew he could do better
than that as soon as some of the machinery was running more smoothly.

"And now suppose we get ready for the gun tests," suggested Tom, when
they had been running for about an hour.

"That's what I'm mostly interested in," said Lieutenant Marbury. "It's
easy enough to get several good types of dirigible balloons, but few of
them will stand having a gun fired from them, to say nothing of several
guns."

"Well, I'm not making any rash promises," Tom went on, "but I think we
can turn the trick."

The armament of the Mars was located around the center cabin.  There
were two large guns, fore and aft, throwing a four-inch projectile, and
two smaller calibered quick-firers on either beam. The guns were
mounted on pedestals that enabled the weapons to fire in almost any
direction, save straight up, and of course the balloon bag being above
them prevented this. However, there was an arrangement whereby a small
automatic quick-firer could be sent up to a platform built on top of
the gas envelope itself, and a man stationed there could shoot at a
rival airship directly overhead.

But the main deck guns could be elevated to an angle of nearly
forty-five degrees, so they could take care of nearly any hostile
aircraft that approached.

"But where are the bombs I heard you speaking of?" asked Ned, as they
finished looking at the guns.

"Here they are," spoke Tom, as he pointed to a space in the middle of
the main cabin floor. He lifted a brass plate, and disclosed three
holes, covered with a strong wire netting that could be removed. "The
bombs will be dropped through those holes," explained the young
inventor, "being released by a magnetic control when the operator
thinks he has reached a spot over the enemy's city or fortification
where the most damage will be done. I'll show you how they work a
little later. Now we'll have a test of some of the guns."

Tom called for some of his men to take charge of the steering and
running of the Mars while he and Lieutenant Marbury prepared to fire
the two larger weapons. This was to be one of the most important tests.

Service charges had been put in, though, of course, no projectiles
would be used, since they were then flying over a large city not far
from Shopton.

"We'll have to wait until we get out over the ocean to give a complete
test, with a bursting shell," Tom said.

He and Lieutenant Marbury were beside a gun, and were about to fire it,
when suddenly, from the stern of the ship, came a ripping, tearing
sound, and, at the same time, confused shouts came from the crew's
quarters.

"What is it?" cried Tom.

"One of the propellers!" was the answer. "It's split, and has torn a
big hole in the gas bag!"

"Bless my overshoes!" cried Mr. Damon. "We're going down!"

All on board the Mars became aware of a sudden sinking sensation.




CHAPTER XVI

TOM IS WORRIED


"Steady, all!" came in even tones from Tom Swift. Not for an instant
had he lost his composure. For it was an accident, that much was
certain, and one that might endanger the lives of all on board.

Above the noise of the machinery in the motor room could be heard the
thrashing and banging of the broken or loose propeller-blade.  Just
what its condition was, could not be told, as a bulge of the gas bag
hid it from the view of those gathered about the gun, which was about
to be fired when the alarm was given.

"We're sinking!" cried Mr. Damon. "We're going down, Tom!"

"That's nothing," was the cool answer. "It is only for a moment. Only a
few of the gas compartments can be torn. There will soon enough
additional gas in the others to lift us again."

And so it proved. The moment the pressure of the lifting gas in the big
oiled silk and aluminum container was lowered, it started the
generating machine, and enough extra gas was pumped into the uninjured
compartments to compensate for the loss.

"We're not falling so fast now," observed Ned.

"No, and we'll soon stop falling altogether," calmly declared Tom. "Too
bad this accident had to happen, though."

"It might have been much worse, my boy!" exclaimed the lieutenant.
"That's a great arrangement of yours--the automatic gas machine."

"It's on the same principle as the air brakes of a trolley car,"
explained Tom, when a look at the indicators showed that the Mars had
ceased falling and remained stationary in the air.  Tom had also sent a
signal to the engine-room to shut off the power, so that the two
undamaged propellers, as well as the broken one, ceased revolving.

"In a trolley car, you see," Tom went on, when the excitement had
calmed down, "as soon as the air pressure in the tanks gets below a
certain point, caused by using the air for a number of applications of
the brakes, it lets a magnetized bar fall, and this establishes an
electrical connection, starting the air pump.  The pump forces more air
into the tanks until the pressure is enough to throw the pump switch
out of connection, when the pump stops. I use the same thing here."

"And very clever it is," said Mr. Damon. "Do you suppose the danger is
all over, Tom?"

"For the time being, yes. But we must unship that damaged propeller,
and go on with the two."

The necessary orders were given, and several men from the engine-room
at once began the removal of the damaged blades.

As several spare ones were carried aboard one could be put on in place
of the broken one, had this been desired. But Tom thought the accident
a good chance to see how his craft would act with only two-thirds of
her motive force available, so he did not order the damaged propeller
replaced. When it was lowered to the deck it was carefully examined.

"What made it break?" Ned wanted to know.

"That's a question I can't answer," Tom replied. "There may have been a
defect in the wood, but I had it all carefully examined before I used
it."

The propeller was one of the "built-up" type, with alternate layers of
ash and mahogany, but some powerful force had torn and twisted the
blades. The wood was splintered and split, and some jagged pieces,
flying off at a tangent, so great was the centrifugal force, had torn
holes in the strong gas bag.

"Did something hit it; or did it hit something?" asked Ned as he saw
Tom carefully examining the broken blades.

"Hard to say. I'll have a good look at this when we get back.  Just now
I want to finish that gun test we didn't get a chance to start."

"You don't mean to say you're going to keep on, and with the balloon
damaged; are you?" cried Mr. Damon, in surprise.

"Certainly--why not?" Tom replied. "In warfare accidents may happen,
and if the Mars can't go on, after a little damage like this, what is
going to happen when she's fired on by a hostile ship?  Of course I'm
going on!"

"Bless my necktie!" ejaculated the odd man.

"That's the way to talk!" exclaimed Lieutenant Marbury. "I'm with you."

There really was very little danger in proceeding. The Mars was just as
buoyant as before, for more gas had been automatically made, and forced
into the uninjured compartments of the bag. At the same time enough
sand ballast had been allowed to run out to make the weight to be
lifted less in proportion to the power remaining.

True, the speed would be less, with two propellers instead of three,
and the craft would not steer as well, with the torn ends of the gas
bag floating out behind. But this made a nearer approach to war
conditions, and Tom was always glad to give his inventions the most
severe tests possible.

So, after a little while, during which it was seen that the Mars was
proceeding almost normally, the matter of discharging the guns was
taken up again.

The weapons were all ready to fire, and when Tom had attached the
pressure gauges to note how much energy was expended in the recoil, he
gave the word to fire.

The two big weapons were discharged together, and for a moment after
the report echoed out among the cloud masses every soul on the ship
feared another accident had happened.

For the big craft rolled and twisted, and seemed about to turn turtle.
Her forward progress was halted, momentarily, and a cry of fear came
from several of the members of the crew, who had had only a little
experience in aircraft.

"What's the matter?" cried Ned. "Something go wrong?"

"A little," admitted Tom, with a rueful look on his face.  "Those
recoil checks didn't work as well in practice as they did in theory."

"Are you sure they are strong enough?" asked Lieutenant Marbury.

"I thought so," spoke Tom. "I'll put more tension on the spring next
time."

"Bless my watch chain!" cried Mr. Damon. "You aren't going to fire
those guns again; are you, Tom?"

"Why not?  We can't tell what's the matter, nor get things right
without experimenting. There's no danger."

"No danger! Don't you call nearly upsetting the ship danger?"

"Oh, well, if she turns over she'll right herself again," Tom said.
"The center of gravity is low, you see. She can't float in any position
but right side up, though she may turn over once or twice."

"Excuse me!" said Mr. Damon firmly. "I'd rather go down, if it's all
the same to you. If my wife ever knew I was here I'd never hear the
last of it!"

"We'll go down soon," Tom promised. "But I must fire a couple of shots
more. You wouldn't call the recoil checks a success, would you?" and
the young inventor appealed to the government inspector.

"No, I certainly would not," was the prompt answer. "I am sorry, too,
for they seemed to be just what was needed. Of course I understand this
is not an official test, and I am not obliged to make a report of this
trial. But had it been, I should have had to score against you.

"I realize that, and I'm not asking any favors, but I'll try it again
with the recoil checks tightened up. I think the hydrostatic valves
were open too much, also."

Preparations were now made for firing the four-inch guns once more. All
this while the Mars had been speeding around in space, being about two
miles up in the air. Tom's craft was not designed to reach as great an
elevation as would be possible in an aeroplane, since to work havoc to
an enemy's fortifications by means of aerial bombs they do not need to
be dropped from a great height.

In fact, experiments in Germany have shown that bombs falling from a
great height are less effective than those falling from an airship
nearer the earth. For a bomb, falling from a height of two miles,
acquires enough momentum to penetrate far into the earth, so that much
of the resultant explosive force is expended in a downward direction,
and little damage is done to the fortifications. A bomb dropped from a
lower altitude, expending its force on all sides, does much more damage.

On the other hand, in destroying buildings, it has been found desirable
to drop a bomb from a good height so that it may penetrate even a
protected roof, and explode inside.

Once more Tom made ready to fire, this time having given the recoil
checks greater resistance. But though there was less motion imparted to
the airship when the guns were discharged, there was still too much for
comfort, or even safety.

"Well, something's wrong, that's sure," remarked Tom, in rather
disappointed tones as he noted the effect of the second shots.  "If we
get as much recoil from the two guns, what would happen if we fired
them all at once?"

"Don't do it! Don't do it, I beg of you!" entreated Mr. Damon.  "Bless
my toothbrush--don't do it!"

"I won't--just at present," Tom said, ruefully. "I'm afraid I'll have
to begin all over again, and proceed along new lines."

"Well, perhaps you will," said the lieutenant. "But you may invent
something much better than anything you have now. There is no great
rush. Take your time, and do something good."

"Oh, I'll get busy on it right away," Tom declared. "We'll go down now,
and start right to work. I'm afraid, Ned, that our idea of a
door-spring check isn't going to work."

"I might have known my idea wouldn't amount to anything," said the
young bank clerk.

"Oh, the idea is all right," declared Tom, "but it wants modifying.
There is more power to those recoils than I figured, though our first
experiments seemed to warrant us in believing that we had solved the
problem."

"Are you going to try the bomb-dropping device?" asked the lieutenant.

"Yes, there can't be any recoil from that," Tom said. "I'll drop a few
blank ones, and see how accurate the range finders are."

While his men were getting ready for this test Tom bent over the broken
propeller, looking from that to the recoil checks, which had not come
up to expectations. Then he shook his head in a worried and puzzled
manner.




CHAPTER XVII

AN OCEAN FLIGHT


Dropping bombs from an aeroplane, or a dirigible balloon, is a
comparatively simple matter. Of course there are complications that may
ensue, from the danger of carrying high explosives in the limited
quarters of an airship, with its inflammable gasoline fuel, and
ever-present electric spark, to the possible premature explosion of the
bomb itself. But they seem to be considered minor details now.

On the other hand, while it is comparatively easy to drop a bomb from a
moving aeroplane, or dirigible balloon, it is another matter to make
the bomb fall just where it will do the most damage to the enemy. It is
not easy to gauge distances, high up in the air, and then, too,
allowance must be made for the speed of the aircraft, the
ever-increasing velocity of a falling body, and the deflection caused
by air currents.

The law of velocity governing falling bodies is well known. It varies,
of course, according to the height, but in general a body falling
freely toward the earth, as all high-school boys know, is accelerated
at the rate of thirty-two feet per second. This law has been taken
advantage of by the French in the present European war. The French drop
from balloons, or aeroplanes, a steel dart about the size of a lead
pencil, and sharpened in about the same manner. Dropping from a height
of a mile or so, that dart will acquire enough velocity to penetrate a
man from his head all the way through his body to his feet.

But in dropping bombs from an airship the damage intended does not so
much depend on velocity. It is necessary to know how fast the bomb
falls in order to know when to set the time fuse that will explode it;
though some bombs will explode on concussion.

At aeroplane meets there are often bomb-dropping contests, and balls
filled with a white powder (that will make a dust-cloud on falling, and
so show where they strike) are used to demonstrate the birdman's
accuracy.

"We'll see how our bomb-release works," Tom went on. "But we'll have to
descend a bit in order to watch the effect."

"You're not going to use real bombs, are you, Tom?" asked Ned.

"Indeed not. Just chalk-dust ones for practice. Now here is where the
bombs will be placed," and he pointed to the three openings in the
floor of the amidship cabin. The wire nettings were taken out and one
could look down through the holes to the earth below, the ground being
nearer now, as Tom had let out some of the lifting gas.

"Here is the range-finder and the speed calculator," the young inventor
went on as he indicated the various instruments. "The operator sits
here, where he can tell when is the most favorable moment for releasing
the bomb."

Tom took his place before a complicated set of instruments, and began
manipulating them. One of his assistants, under the direction of
Lieutenant Marbury, placed in the three openings bombs, made of light
cardboard, just the size of a regular bomb, but filled with a white
powder that would, on breaking, make a dust-cloud which could be
observed from the airship.

"I have first to determine where I want to drop the bomb," Tom
explained, "and then I have to get my distance from it on the
range-finder. Next I have to know how fast I am traveling, and how far
up in the air I am, to tell what the velocity of the falling bomb will
attain at a certain time. This I can do by means of these instruments,
some of which I have adapted from those used by the government," he
said, with a nod to the officer.

"That's right--take all the information you can get," was the smiling
response.

"We will now assume that the bombs are in place in the holes in the
floor of the cabin," Tom went on. "As I sit here I have before me three
buttons. They control the magnets that hold the bombs in place. If I
press one of the buttons it breaks the electrical current, the magnet
no longer has any attraction, and it releases the explosive. Now look
down. I am going to try and drop a chalk bomb near that stone fence."

The Mars was then flying over a large field and a stone fence was in
plain view.

"Here she goes!" cried Tom, as he made some rapid calculations from his
gauge instruments. There was a little click and the chalk bomb dropped.
There was a plate glass floor in part of the cabin, and through this
the progress of the pasteboard bomb could be observed.

"She'll never go anywhere near the fence!" declared Ned. "You let it
drop too soon, Tom!"

"Did I? You just watch. I had to allow for the momentum that would be
given the bomb by the forward motion of the balloon."

Hardly had Tom spoken than a puff of white was seen on the very top of
the fence.

"There it goes?" cried the lieutenant. "You did the trick, Swift!"

"Yes, I thought I would. Well, that shows my gauges are correct,
anyhow. Now we'll try the other two bombs."

In succession they were released from the bottom of the cabin, at other
designated objects. The second one was near a tree. It struck within
five feet, which was considered good.

"And I'll let the last one down near that scarecrow in the field," said
Tom, pointing to a ragged figure in the middle of a patch of corn.

Down went the cardboard bomb, and so good was the aim of the young
inventor that the white dust arose in a cloud directly back of the
scarecrow.

And then a queer thing happened. For the figure seemed to come to life,
and Ned, who was watching through a telescope, saw a very much excited
farmer looking up with an expression of the greatest wonder on his
face. He saw the balloon over his head, and shook his fist at it,
evidently thinking he had had a narrow escape. But the pasteboard bomb
was so light that, had it hit him, he would not have been injured,
though he might have been well dusted.

"Why, that was a man! Bless my pocketbook!" cried Mr. Damon.

"I guess it was," agreed Tom. "I took it for a scarecrow."

"Well, it proved the accuracy of your aim, at any rate," observed
Lieutenant Marbury. "The bomb dropping device of your aerial warship is
perfect--I can testify to that."

"And I'll have the guns fixed soon, so there will be no danger of a
recoil, too," added Tom Swift, with a determined look on his face.

"What's next?" asked Mr. Damon, looking at his watch. "I really ought
to be home, Tom."

"We're going back now, and down. Are you sure you don't want me to drop
you in your own front yard, or even on your roof? I think I could
manage that."

"Bless my stovepipe, no, Tom! My wife would have hysterics.  Just land
me at Shopton and I'll take a car home."

The damaged airship seemed little the worse for the test to which she
had been subjected, and made her way at good speed in the direction of
Tom's home. Several little experiments were tried on the way back. They
all worked well, and the only two problems Tom had to solve were the
taking care of the recoil from the guns and finding out why the
propeller had broken.

A safe landing was made, and the Mars once more put away in her hangar.
Mr. Damon departed for his home, and Lieutenant Marbury again took up
his residence in the Swift household.

"Well, Tom, how did it go?" asked his father.

"Not so very well. Too much recoil from the guns."

"I was afraid so. You had better drop this line of work, and go at
something else."

"No, Dad!" Tom cried. "I'm going to make this work. I never had
anything stump me yet, and I'm not going to begin now!"

"Well, that's a good spirit to show," said the aged inventor, with a
shake of his head, "but I don't believe you'll succeed, Tom."

"Yes I will, Dad! You just wait."

Tom decided to begin on the problem of the propeller first, as that
seemed more simple. He knew that the gun question would take longer.

"Just what are you trying to find out, Tom?" asked Ned, a few nights
later, when he found his chum looking at the broken parts of the
propeller.

"Trying to discover what made this blade break up and splinter that
way. It couldn't have been centrifugal force, for it wasn't strong
enough."

Tom was "poking" away amid splinters, and bits of broken wood, when he
suddenly uttered an exclamation, and held up something.  "Look!" he
cried. "I believe I've found it."

"What?" asked Ned.

"The thing that weakened the propeller. Look at this, and smell!" He
held out a piece of wood toward Ned. The bank employee saw where a
half-round hole had been bored in what remained of the blade, and from
that hole came a peculiar odor.

"It's some kind of acid," ventured Ned.

"That's it!" cried Tom. "Someone bored a hole in the propeller, and put
in some sort of receptacle, or capsule, containing a corrosive acid. In
due time, which happened to be when we took our first flight, the acid
ate through whatever it was contained in, and then attacked the wood of
the propeller blade. It weakened the wood so that the force used in
whirling it around broke it."

"Are you sure of that?" asked Ned.

"As sure as I am that I'm here! Now I know what caused the accident!"

"But who would play such a trick?" asked Ned. "We might all have been
killed."

"Yes, I know we might," said Tom. "It must be the work of some of those
foreign spies whose first plot we nipped in the bud. I must tell
Marbury of this, but don't mention it to dad."

"I won't," promised Ned.

Lieutenant Marbury agreed with Tom that someone had surreptitiously
bored a small hole in the propeller blade, and had inserted a corrosive
acid that would take many hours to operate. The hole had been varnished
over, probably, so it would not show.

"And that means I've got to examine the other two blades," Tom said.
"They may be doctored too."

But they did not prove to be. A careful examination showed nothing
wrong. An effort was made to find out who had tried to destroy the Mars
in midair, but it came to nothing. The two men in custody declared they
knew nothing of it, and there was no way of proving that they did.

Meanwhile, the torn gas bag was repaired, and Tom began working on the
problem of doing away with the gun recoil. He tried several schemes,
and almost was on the point of giving up when suddenly he received a
hint by reading an account of how the recoil was taken care of on some
of the German Zeppelins.

The guns there were made double, with the extra barrel filled with
water or sand, that could be shot out as was the regular charge. As
both barrels were fired at the same time, and in opposite directions,
with the same amount of powder, one neutralized the other, and the
recoil was canceled, the ship remaining steady after fire.

"By Jove! I believe that will do the trick!" cried Tom. "I'm going to
try it."

"Good luck to you!" cried Ned.

It was no easy matter to change all the guns of the Mars, and fit them
with double barrels. But by working day and night shifts Tom managed
it. Meanwhile, a careful watch was kept over the shops. Several new men
applied for work, and some of them were suspicious enough in looks, but
Tom took on no new hands.

Finally the new guns were made, and tried with the Mars held on the
ground. They behaved perfectly, the shooting of sand or water from the
dummy barrel neutralizing the shot from the service barrel.

"And now to see how it works in practice!" cried Tom one day.  "Are you
with me for a long flight, Ned?"

"I sure am!"

The next evening the Mars, with a larger crew than before, and with
Tom, Ned, Mr. Damon and Lieutenant Marbury aboard, set sail.

"But why start at night?" asked Ned.

"You'll see in the morning," Tom answered.

The Mars flew slowly all night, life aboard her, at about the level of
the clouds, going on almost as naturally as though the occupants of the
cabins were on the earth. Excellent meals were served.

"But when are you going to try the guns?" asked Ned, as he got ready to
turn in.

"Tell you in the morning," replied Tom, with a smile.

And, in the morning, when Ned looked down through the plate glass in
the cabin floor, he uttered a cry.

"Why, Tom! We're over the ocean!" he cried.

"I rather thought we'd be," was the calm reply. "I told George to head
straight for the Atlantic. Now we'll have a test with service charges
and projectiles!"




CHAPTER XVIII

IN A STORM


Surprise, for the moment, held Mr. Damon, Ned and Lieutenant Marbury
speechless. They looked from the heaving waters of the ocean below them
to the young pilot of the Mars. He smiled at their astonishment.

"What--what does it mean, Tom?" asked Ned. "You never said you were
going to take a trip as far as this."

"That's right," chimed in Mr. Damon. "Bless my nightcap! If I had known
I was going to be brought so far away from home I'd never have come."

"You're not so very far from Waterford," put in Tom. "We didn't make
any kind of speed coming from Shopton, and we could be back again
inside of four hours if we had to."

"Then you didn't travel fast during the night?" asked the government
man.

"No, we just drifted along," Tom answered. "I gave orders to run the
machinery slowly, as I wanted to get it in good shape for the other
tests that will come soon. But I told George, whom I left in charge
when I turned in, to head for New York. I wanted to get out over the
ocean to try the guns with the new recoil arrangement."

"Well, we're over the ocean all right," spoke Ned, as he looked down at
the heaving waters.

"It isn't the first time," replied Tom cheerfully. "Koku, you may serve
breakfast now," for the giant had been taken along as a sort of cook
and waiter. Koku manifested no surprise or alarm when he found the
airship floating over the sea. Whatever Tom did was right to him. He
had great confidence in his master.

"No, it isn't the first time we've taken a water flight," spoke Ned. "I
was only surprised at the suddenness of it, that's all."

"It's my first experience so far out above the water," observed
Lieutenant Marbury, "though of course I've sailed on many seas.  Why,
we're out of sight of land."

"About ten miles out, yes," admitted Tom. "Far enough to make it safe
to test the guns with real projectiles. That is what I want to do."

"And we've been running all night?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Yes, but at slow speed. The engines are in better shape now than ever
before," Tom said. "Well, if you're ready we'll have breakfast."

The meal was served by Koku with as much unconcern as though they were
in the Swift homestead back in Shopton, instead of floating near the
clouds. And while it was being eaten in the main cabin, and while the
crew was having breakfast in their quarters, the aerial warship was
moving along over the ocean in charge of George Watson, one of Tom's
engineers, who was stationed in the forward pilot-house.

"So you're going to give the guns a real test this time, is that it,
Tom?" asked Ned, as he pushed back his plate, a signal that he had
eaten enough.

"That's about it."

"But don't you think it's a bit risky out over the water this way.
Supposing something should--should happen?" Ned hesitated.

"You mean we might fall?" asked Tom, with a smile.

"Yes; or turn upside down."

"Nothing like that could happen. I'm so sure that I have solved the
problem of the recoil of the guns that I'm willing to take chances. But
if any of you want to get off the Mars while the test is being made, I
have a small boat I can lower, and let you row about in that until--"

"No, thank you!" interrupted Mr. Damon, as he looked below.  There was
quite a heavy swell on, and the ocean did not appear very attractive.
They would be much more comfortable in the big Mars.

"I think you won't have any trouble," asserted Lieutenant Marbury. "I
believe Tom Swift has the right idea about the guns, and there will be
so small a shock from the recoil that it will not be noticeable."

"We'll soon know," spoke Tom. "I'm going to get ready for the test now."

They were now well out from shore, over the Atlantic, but to make
certain no ships would be endangered by the projectiles, Tom and the
others searched the waters to the horizon with powerful glasses.
Nothing was seen and the work of loading the guns was begun. The bomb
tubes, in the main cabin, were also to be given a test.

As service charges were to be used, and as the projectiles were filled
with explosives, great care was needed in handling them.

"We'll try dropping bombs first," Tom suggested. "We know they will
work, and that will be so much out of the way."

To make the test a severe one, small floating targets were first
dropped overboard from the Mars. Then the aerial warship, circling
about, came on toward them. Tom, seated at the range-finders, pressed
the button that released the shells containing the explosives. One
after another they dropped into the sea, exploding as they fell, and
sending up a great column of salt water.

"Every one a hit!" reported Lieutenant Marbury, who was keeping "score."

"That's good," responded Tom. "But the others won't be so easy.  We
have nothing to shoot at."

They had to fire the other guns without targets at which to aim. But,
after all, it was the absence of recoil they wanted to establish, and
this could be done without shooting at any particular object.

One after another the guns were loaded. As has been explained, they
were now made double, one barrel carrying the projectile, and the other
a charge of water.

"Are you ready?" asked Tom, when it was time to fire.  Lieutenant
Marbury, Ned and Mr. Damon were helping, by being stationed at the
pressure gauges to note the results.

"All ready," answered Ned.

"Do you think we'd better put on life preservers, Tom?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Nonsense! What for?"

"In case--in case anything happens."

"Nothing will happen. Look out now, I'm going to fire."

The guns were to be fired simultaneously by means of an electric
current, when Tom pressed a button.

"Here they go!" exclaimed the young inventor.

There was a moment of waiting, and then came a thundering roar.  The
Mars trembled, but she did not shift to either side from an even keel.
From one barrel of the guns shot out the explosive projectiles, and
from the other spurted a jet of water, sent out by a charge of powder,
equal in weight to that which forced out the shot.

As the projectile was fired in one direction, and the water in one
directly opposite, the two discharges neutralized one another.

Out flew the pointed steel shells, to fall harmlessly into the sea,
where they exploded, sending up columns of water.

"Well!" cried Tom as the echoes died away. "How was it?"

"Couldn't have been better," declared Lieutenant Marbury.  "There
wasn't the least shock of recoil. Tom Swift, you have solved the
problem, I do believe! Your aerial warship is a success!"

"I'm glad to hear you say so. There are one or two little things that
need changing, but I really think I have about what the United States
Government wants."

"I am, also, of that belief, Tom. If only--" The officer stopped
suddenly.

"Well?" asked Tom suggestively.

"I was going to say if only those foreign spies don't make trouble."

"I think we've seen the last of them," Tom declared. "Now we'll go on
with the tests."

More guns were fired, singly and in batteries, and in each case the
Mars stood the test perfectly. The double barrel had solved the recoil
problem.

For some little time longer they remained out over the sea, going
through some evolutions to test the rudder control, and then as their
present object had been accomplished Tom gave orders to head back to
Shopton, which place was reached in due time.

"Well, Tom, how was it?" asked Mr. Swift, for though his son had said
nothing to his friends about the prospective test, the aged inventor
knew about it.

"Successful, Dad, in every particular."

"That's good. I didn't think you could do it. But you did. I tell you
it isn't much that can get the best of a Swift!" exclaimed the aged man
proudly. "Oh, by the way, Tom, here's a telegram that came while you
were gone," and he handed his son the yellow envelope.

Tom ripped it open with a single gesture, and in a flash his eyes took
in the words. He read:


"Look out for spies during trial flights."


The message was signed with a name Tom did not recognize.

"Any bad news?" asked Mr. Swift.

"No--oh, no," replied Tom, as he crumpled up the paper and thrust it
into his pocket. "No bad news, Dad."

"Well, I'm glad to hear that," went on Mr. Swift. "I don't like
telegrams."

When Tom showed the message to Lieutenant Marbury, that official, after
one glance at the signature, said:

"Pierson, eh?  Well, when he sends out a warning it generally means
something."

"Who's Pierson?" asked Tom.

"Head of the Secret Service department that has charge of this airship
matter. There must be something in the wind, Tom."

Extra precautions were taken about the shops. Strangers were not
permitted to enter, and all future work on the Mars was kept secret.
Nevertheless, Tom was worried. He did not want his work to be spoiled
just when it was about to be a success. For that it was a success,
Lieutenant Marbury assured him. The government man said he would have
no hesitation in recommending the purchase of Tom's aerial warship.

"There's just one other test I want to see made," he said.

"What is that?" Tom inquired.

"In a storm. You know we can't always count on having good weather, and
I'd like to see how she behaves in a gale."

"You shall!" declared the young inventor.

For the next week, during which finishing touches were put on the big
craft, Tom anxiously waited for signs of a storm. At last they came.
Danger signals were put up all along the coast, and warnings were sent
out broadcast by the Weather Bureau at Washington.

One dull gray morning Tom roused his friends early and announced that
the Mars was going up.

"A big storm is headed this way," Tom said, "and we'll have a chance to
see how she behaves in it."

And even as the flight began, the forerunning wind and rain came in a
gust of fury. Into the midst of it shot the big aerial warship, with
her powerful propellers beating the moisture-laden air.




CHAPTER XIX

QUEER HAPPENINGS


"Say, Tom, are you sure you're all right?"

"Of course I am! What do you mean?"

It was Ned Newton who asked the question, and Tom Swift who answered
it. The chums were in the pilot-house of the dipping, swaying Mars,
which was nosing her way into the storm, fighting on an upward slant,
trying, if possible, to get above the area of atmospheric disturbance.

"Well, I mean are you sure your craft will stand all this straining,
pulling and hauling?" went on Ned, as he clung to a brass hand rail,
built in the side of the pilot-house wall for the very purpose to which
it was now being put.

"If she doesn't stand it she's no good!" cried Tom, as he clung to the
steering wheel, which was nearly torn from his hands by the deflections
of the rudders.

"Well, it's taking a big chance, it seems to me," went on Ned, as he
peered through the rain-spotted bull's-eyes of the pilot-house.

"There's no danger," declared Tom. "I wanted to give the ship the
hardest test possible before I formally offered her to the government.
If she can't stand a blow like this she isn't what I thought her, and
I'll have to build another. But I'm sure she will stand the racket,
Ned. She's built strongly, and even if part of the gas bag is carried
away, as it was when our propeller shattered, we can still sail. If you
think this is anything, wait until we turn about and begin to fight our
way against the wind."

"Are you going to do that, Tom?"

"I certainly am. We're going with the gale now, to see what is the
highest rate of speed we can attain. Pretty soon I'm going to turn her
around, and see if she can make any headway in the other direction. Of
course I know she won't make much, if any speed, against the gale; but
I must give her that test."

"Well, Tom, you know best, of course," admitted Ned. "But to me it
seems like taking a big risk."

And indeed it did seem, not only to Ned, but to some of the experienced
men of Tom's crew, that the young inventor was taking more chances than
ever before, and Tom, as my old readers well know, had, in his career,
taken some big ones.

The storm grew worse as the day progressed, until it was a veritable
hurricane of wind and rain. The warnings of the Weather Bureau had not
been exaggerated. But through the fierce blow the Mars fought her way.
As Tom had said, she was going with the wind. This was comparatively
easy. But what would happen when she headed into the storm?

Mr. Damon, in the main cabin, sat and looked at Lieutenant Marbury, the
eccentric man now and then blessing something as he happened to think
of it.

"Do you--do you think we are in any danger?" he finally asked.

"Not at present," replied the government expert.

"You mean we will be--later?"

"It's hard to say. I guess Tom Swift knows his business, though."

"Bless my accident insurance policy!" murmured Mr. Damon. "I wish I had
stayed home. If my wife ever hears of this--" He did not seem able to
finish the sentence.

In the engine-room the crew were busy over the various machines. Some
of the apparatus was being strained to keep the ship on her course in
the powerful wind, and would be under a worse stress when Tom turned
his craft about. But, so far, nothing had given way, and everything was
working smoothly.

As hour succeeded hour and nothing happened, the timid ones aboard
began to take more courage. Tom never for a moment lost heart. He knew
what his craft could do, and he had taken her up in a terrific storm
with a definite purpose in view. He was the calmest person aboard, with
the exception, perhaps, of Koku. The giant did not seem to know what
fear was. He depended entirely on Tom, and as long as his young master
had charge of matters the giant was content to obey orders.

There was to be no test of the guns this time. They had worked
sufficiently well, and, if need be, could have been fired in the gale.
But Tom did not want his men to take unnecessary risks, nor was he
foolhardy himself.

"We'll have our hands full when we turn around and head into the wind,"
he said to his chum. "That will be enough."

"Then you're really going to give the Mars that test?"

"I surely am. I don't want any comebacks from Uncle Sam after he
accepts my aerial warship. I've guaranteed that she'll stand up and
make headway against a gale, and I'm going to prove it."

Lieutenant Marbury was told of the coming trial, and he prepared to
take official note of it. While matters were being gotten in readiness
Tom turned the wheel over to his assistant pilot and went to the
engine-room to see that everything was in good shape to cope with any
emergency. The rudders had been carefully examined before the flight
was made, to make sure they would not fail, for on them depended the
progress of the ship against the powerful wind.

"I rather guess those foreign spies have given up trying to do Tom an
injury," remarked Ned to the lieutenant as they sat in the main cabin,
listening to the howl of the wind, and the dash of the rain.

"Well, I certainly hope so," was the answer. "But I wouldn't be too
sure. The folks in Washington evidently think something is likely to
happen, or they wouldn't have sent that warning telegram."

"But we haven't seen anything of the spies," Ned remarked.

"No, but that isn't any sign they are not getting ready to make
trouble. This may be the calm before the storm. Tom must still be on
the lookout. It isn't as though his inventions alone were in danger,
for they would not hesitate to inflict serious personal injury if their
plans were thwarted."

"They must be desperate."

"They are. But here comes Tom now. He looks as though something new was
about to happen."

"Take care of yourselves now," advised the young aero-inventor, as he
entered the cabin, finding it hard work to close the door against the
terrific wind pressure.

"Why?" asked Ned.

"Because we are going to turn around and fight our way back against the
gale. We may be turned topsy-turvy for a second or two."

"Bless my shoe-horn!" cried Mr. Damon. "Do you mean upside down, Tom?"

"No, not that exactly. But watch out!"

Tom went forward to the pilot-house, followed by Ned and the
lieutenant. The latter wanted to take official note of what happened.
Tom relieved the man at the wheel, and gradually began to alter the
direction of the craft.

At first no change was noticeable. So strong was the force of the wind
that it seemed as though the Mars was going in the same direction. But
Ned, noticing a direction compass on the wall, saw that the needle was
gradually shifting.

"Hold fast!" cried Tom suddenly. Then with a quick shift of the rudder
something happened. It seemed as though the Mars was trying to turn
over, and slide along on her side, or as if she wanted to turn about
and scud before the gale, instead of facing it. But Tom held her to the
reverse course.

"Can you get her around?" cried the lieutenant above the roar of the
gale.

"I--I'm going to!" muttered Tom through his set teeth.

Inch by inch he fought the big craft through the storm. Inch by inch
the indicator showed the turning, until at last the grip of the gale
was overcome.

"Now she's headed right into it!" cried Tom in exultation.  "She's
nosing right into it!"

And the Mars was. There was no doubt of it. She had succeeded, under
Tom's direction, in changing squarely about, and was now going against
the wind, instead of with it.

"But we can't expect to make much speed," Tom said, as he signaled for
more power, for he had lowered it somewhat in making the turn.

But Tom himself scarcely had reckoned on the force of his craft, for as
the propellers whirled more rapidly the aerial warship did begin to
make headway, and that in the teeth of a terrific wind.

"She's doing it, Tom! She's doing it!" cried Ned exultingly.

"I believe she is," agreed the lieutenant.

"Well, so much the better," Tom said, trying to be calm. "If she can
keep this up a little while I'll give her a rest and we'll go up above
the storm area, and beat back home."

The Mars, so far, had met every test. Tom had decided on ten minutes
more of gale-fighting, when from the tube that communicated with the
engine-room came a shrill whistle.

"See what that is, Ned," Tom directed.

"Yes," called  Ned  into  the  mouthpiece. "What's the matter?"

"Short circuit in the big motor," was the reply. "We've got to run on
storage battery. Send Tom back here! Something queer has happened!"




CHAPTER XX

THE STOWAWAYS


Ned repeated the message breathlessly.

"Short circuit!" gasped Tom. "Run on storage battery! I'll have to see
to that. Take the wheel somebody!"

"Wouldn't it be better to turn about, and run before the wind, so as
not to put too great a strain on the machinery?" asked Lieutenant
Marbury.

"Perhaps," agreed Tom. "Hold her this way, though, until I see what's
wrong!"

Ned and the government man took the wheel, while Tom hurried along the
runway leading from the pilot-house to the machinery cabin. The gale
was still blowing fiercely.

The young inventor cast a hasty look about the interior of the place as
he entered. He sniffed the air suspiciously, and was aware of the odor
of burning insulation.

"What happened?" he asked, noting that already the principal motive
power was coming from the big storage battery. The shift had been made
automatically, when the main motor gave out.

"It's hard to say," was the answer of the chief engineer. "We were
running along all right, and we got your word to switch on more power,
after the turn. We did that all right, and she was running as smooth as
a sewing-machine, when, all of a sudden, she short-circuited, and the
storage battery cut in automatically."

"Think you put too heavy a load on the motor?" Tom asked.

"Couldn't have been that. The shunt box would have taken that up, and
the circuit-breaker would have worked, saving us a burn-out, and that's
what happened--a burn-out. The motor will have to be rewound."

"Well, no use trying to fight this gale with the storage battery," Tom
said, after a moment's thought. "We'll run before it. That's the
easiest way. Then we'll try to rise above the wind."

He sent the necessary message to the pilot-house. A moment later the
shift was made, and once more the Mars was scudding before the storm.
Then Tom gave his serious attention to what had happened in the engine
room.

As he bent over the burned-out motor, looking at the big shiny
connections, he saw something that startled him. With a quick motion
Tom Swift picked up a bar of copper. It was hot to the touch--so hot
that he dropped it with a cry of pain, though he had let go so quickly
that the burn was only momentary.

"What's the matter?" asked Jerry Mound, Tom's engineer.

"Matter!" cried Tom. "A whole lot is the matter! That copper bar is
what made the short circuit. It's hot yet from the electric current.
How did it fall on the motor connections?"

The engine room force gathered about the young inventor. No one could
explain how the copper bar came to be where it was.  Certainly no one
of Tom's employees had put it there, and it could not have fallen by
accident, for the motor connections were protected by a mesh of wire,
and a hand would have to be thrust under them to put the bar in place.
Tom gave a quick look at his men. He knew he could trust them--every
one. But this was a queer happening.

For a moment Tom did not know what to think, and then, as the memory of
that warning telegram came to him, he had an idea.

"Were any strangers in this cabin before the start was made?" he asked
Mr. Mound.

"Not that I know of," was the answer.

"Well, there may be some here now," Tom said grimly. "Look about."

But a careful search revealed no one. Yet the young inventor was sure
the bar of copper, which had done the mischief of short-circuiting the
motor, had been put in place deliberately.

In reality there was no danger to the craft, since there was power
enough in the storage battery to run it for several hours.  But the
happening showed Tom he had still to reckon with his enemies.

He looked at the height gauge on the wall of the motor-room, and noted
that the Mars was going up. In accordance with Tom's instructions they
were sending her above the storm area. Once there, with no gale to
fight, they could easily beat their way back to a point above Shopton,
and make the best descent possible.

And that was done while, under Tom's direction, his men took the
damaged motor apart, with a view to repairing it.

"What was it, Tom?" asked Ned, coming back to join his chum, after
George Ventor, the assistant pilot, had taken charge of the wheel.

"I don't exactly know, Ned," was the answer. "But I feel certain that
some of my enemies came aboard here and worked this mischief."

"Your enemies came aboard?"

"Yes, and they must be here now. The placing of that copper bar proves
it."

"Then let's make a search and find them, Tom. It must be some of those
foreign spies."

"Just what I think."

But a more careful search of the craft than the one Tom had casually
made revealed the presence of no one. All the crew and helpers were
accounted for, and, as they had been in Tom's service for some time,
they were beyond suspicion. Yet the fact remained that a seemingly
human agency had acted to put the main motor out of commission. Tom
could not understand it.

"Well, it sure is queer," observed Ned, as the search came to nothing.

"It's worse than queer," declared Tom, "it's alarming! I don't know
when I'll be safe if we have ghosts aboard."

"Ghosts?" repeated Ned.

"Well, when we can't find out who put that bar in place I might as well
admit it was a ghost," spoke Tom. "Certainly, if it was done by a man,
he didn't jump overboard after doing it, and he isn't here now. It sure
is queer!"

Ned agreed with the last statement, at any rate.

In due time the Mars, having fought her way above the storm, came over
Shopton, and then, the wind having somewhat died out, she fought her
way down, and, after no little trouble, was housed in the hangar.

Tom cautioned his friends and workmen to say nothing to his father
about the mysterious happening on board.

"I'll just tell him we had a slight accident, and let it go at that,"
Tom decided. "No use in causing him worry."

"But what are you going to do about it?" asked Ned.

"I'm going to keep careful watch over the aerial warship, at any rate,"
declared Tom. "If there's a hidden enemy aboard, I'll starve him out."

Accordingly, a guard, under the direction of Koku, was posted about the
big shed, but nothing came of it. No stranger was observed to sneak out
of the ship, after it had been deserted by the crew. The mystery seemed
deeper than ever.

It took nearly a week to repair the big motor, and, during this time,
Tom put some improvements on the airship, and added the finishing
touches.

He was getting it ready for the final government test, for the
authorities in Washington had sent word that they would have Captain
Warner, in addition to Lieutenant Marbury, make the final inspection
and write a report.

Meanwhile several little things occurred to annoy Tom. He was besieged
with applications from new men who wanted to work, and many of these
men seemed to be foreigners. Tom was sure they were either spies of
some European nations, or the agents of spies, and they got no further
than the outer gate.

But some strangers did manage to sneak into the works, though they were
quickly detected and sent about their business. Also, once or twice,
small fires were discovered in outbuildings, but they were soon
extinguished with little damage. Extra vigilance was the watchword.

"And yet, with all my precautions, they may get me, or damage
something," declared Tom. "It is very annoying!"

"It is," agreed Ned, "and we must be doubly on the lookout."

So impressed was Ned with the necessity for caution that he arranged to
take his vacation at this time, so as to be on hand to help his chum,
if necessary.

The Mars was nearing completion. The repaired motor was better than
ever, and everything was in shape for the final test. Mr. Damon was
persuaded to go along, and Koku was to be taken, as well as the two
government officials.

The night before the trip the guards about the airship shed were
doubled, and Tom made two visits to the place before midnight. But
there was no alarm.

Consequently, when the Mars started off on her final test, it was
thought that all danger from the spies was over.

"She certainly is a beauty," said Captain Warner, as the big craft shot
upward. "I shall be interested in seeing how she stands gun fire,
though."

"Oh, she'll stand it," declared Lieutenant Marbury. The trip was to
consume several days of continuous flying, to test the engines. A large
supply of food and ammunition was aboard.

It was after supper of the first day out, and our friends were seated
in the main cabin laying out a program for the next day, when sudden
yells came from a part of the motor cabin devoted to storage. Koku, who
had been sent to get out a barrel of oil, was heard to shout.

"What's up?" asked Tom, starting to his feet. He was answered almost at
once by more yells.

"Oh, Master! Come quickly!" cried the giant. "There are many men here.
There are stowaways aboard!"




CHAPTER XXI

PRISONERS


For a moment, after hearing Koku's reply, neither Tom nor his friends
spoke. Then Ned, in a dazed sort of way, repeated:

"Stowaways!"

"Bless my--" began Mr. Damon, but that was as far as he got.

From the engine compartment, back of the amidship cabin, came a sound
of cries and heavy blows. The yells of Koku could be heard above those
of the others.

Then the door of the cabin where Tom Swift and his friends were was
suddenly burst open, and seven or eight men threw themselves within.
They were led by a man with a small, dark mustache and a little tuft of
whiskers on his chin--an imperial. He looked the typical Frenchman, and
his words, snapped out, bore out that belief.

What he said was in French, as Tom understood, though he knew little of
that language. Also, what the Frenchman said produced an immediate
result, for the men following him sprang at our friends with
overwhelming fierceness.

Before Tom, Ned, Captain Warner, Mr. Damon or Lieutenant Marbury could
grasp any weapon with which to defend themselves, had their intentions
been to do so, they were seized.

Against such odds little could be done, though our friends did not give
up without a struggle.

"What does this mean?" angrily demanded Tom Swift. "Who are you?  What
are you doing aboard my craft? Who are--"

His words were lost in smothered tones, for one of his assailants put a
heavy cloth over his mouth, and tied it there, gagging him. Another
man, with a quick motion, whipped a rope about Tom's hands and feet,
and he was soon securely bound.

In like manner the others were treated, and, despite the struggles of
Mr. Damon, the two government men and Ned, they were soon put in a
position where they could do nothing--helplessly bound, and laid on a
bench in the main cabin, staring blankly up at the ceiling. Each one
was gagged so effectively that he could not utter more than a faint
moan.

Of the riot of thoughts that ran through the heads of each one, I leave
you to imagine.

What did it all mean? Where had the strange men come from? What did
they mean by thus assaulting Tom and his companions? And what had
happened to the others of the crew--Koku, Jerry Mound, the engineer,
and George Ventor, the assistant pilot?

These were only a few of the questions Tom asked himself, as he lay
there, bound and helpless. Doubtless Mr. Damon and the others were
asking themselves similar questions.

One thing was certain--whatever the stowaways, as Koku had called them,
had done, they had not neglected the Mars, for she was running along at
about the same speed, though in what direction Tom could not tell. He
strained to get a view of the compass on the forward wall of the cabin,
but he could not see it.

It had been a rough-and-tumble fight, by which our friends were made
prisoners, but no one seemed to have been seriously, or even slightly,
hurt. The invaders, under the leadership of the Frenchman, were rather
ruffled, but that was all.

Pantingly they stood in line, surveying their captives, while the man
with the mustache and imperial smiled in a rather superior fashion at
the row of bound ones. He spoke in his own tongue to the men, who, with
the exception of one, filed out, going, as Tom and the others could
note, to the engine-room in the rear.

"I hope I have not had to hurt any of you," the Frenchman observed,
with sarcastic politeness. "I regret the necessity that caused me to do
this, but, believe me, it was unavoidable."

He spoke with some accent, and Tom at once decided this was the same
man who had once approached Eradicate. He also recognized him as the
man he had seen in the woods the day of the outing.

"He's one of the foreign spies," thought Tom "and he's got us and the
ship, too. They were too many for us!"

Tom's anxiety to speak, to hold some converse with the captor, was so
obvious that the Frenchman said:

"I am going to treat you as well as I can under the circumstances. You
and your other friends, who are also made prisoners, will be allowed to
be together, and then you can talk to your hearts' content."

The other man, who had remained with the evident ringleader of the
stowaways, asked a question, in French, and he used the name La Foy.

"Ah!" thought Tom. "This is the leader of the gang that attacked Koku
in the shop that night. They have been waiting their chance, and now
they have made good. But where did they come from? Could they have
boarded us from some other airship?"

Yet, as Tom asked himself that question, he knew it could hardly have
been possible. The men must have been in hiding on his own craft, they
must have been, as Koku had cried out--stowaways--and have come out at
a preconcerted signal to overpower the aviators.

"If you will but have patience a little longer," went on La Foy, for
that was evidently the name of the leader, "you will all be together.
We are just considering where best to put you so that you will not
suffer too much. It is quite a problem to deal with so many prisoners,
but we have no choice."

The two Frenchmen conversed rapidly in their own language for a few
minutes, and then there came into the cabin another of the men who had
helped overpower Tom and his friends. What he told La Foy seemed to
give that individual satisfaction, for he smiled.

"We are going to put you all together in the largest storeroom, which
is partly empty," La Foy said. "There you will be given food and drink,
and treated as well as possible under the circumstances. You will also
be unbound, and may converse among yourselves. I need hardly point
out," he went on, "that calling for help will be useless. We are a mile
or so in the air, and have no intention of descending," and he smiled
mockingly.

"They must know how to navigate my aerial warship," thought Tom. "I
wonder what their game is, anyhow?"

Night had fallen, but the cabin was aglow with electric lights.  The
foreigners in charge of the Mars seemed to know their way about
perfectly, and how to manage the big craft. By the vibration Tom could
tell that the motor was running evenly and well.

"But what happened to the others--to Mound, Ventor and Koku?" wondered
Tom.

A moment later several of the foreigners entered. Some of them did not
look at all like Frenchmen, and Tom was sure one was a German and
another a Russian.

"This will be your prison--for a while," said La Foy significantly, and
Tom wondered how long this would be the case.  A sharp thought came to
him--how long would they be prisoners?  Did not some other, and more
terrible, fate await them?

As La Foy spoke, he opened a storeroom door that led off from the main,
or amidship, cabin. This room was intended to contain the supplies and
stores that would be taken on a long voyage. It was one of two, being
the larger, and now contained only a few odds and ends of little
importance. It made a strong prison, as Tom well knew, having planned
it.

One by one, beginning with Tom, the prisoners were taken up and placed
in a recumbent position on the floor of the storeroom.  Then were
brought in the engineer and assistant pilot, as well as Koku and a
machinist whom Tom had brought along to help him. Now the young
inventor and all his friends were together. It took four men to carry
Koku in, the giant being covered with a network of ropes.

"On second thought," said La Foy, as he saw Koku being placed with his
friends, "I think we will keep the big man with us. We had trouble
enough to subdue him. Carry him back to the engine-room."

So Koku, trussed up like some roped steer, was taken out again.

"Now then," said La Foy to his prisoners, as he stood in the door of
the room, "I will unbind one of you, and he may loose the bonds of the
others."

As he spoke, he took the rope from Tom's hands, and then, quickly
slipping out, locked and barred the door.




CHAPTER XXII

APPREHENSIONS


For a moment or two, after the ropes binding his hands were loosed, Tom
Swift did nothing. He was not only stunned mentally, but the bonds had
been pulled so tightly about his wrists that the circulation was
impeded, and his cramped muscles required a little time in which to
respond.

But presently he felt the tingle of the coursing blood, and he found he
could move his arms. He raised them to his head, and then his first
care was to remove the pad of cloth that formed a gag over his mouth.
Now he could talk.

"I--I'll loosen you all in just a second," he said, as he bent over to
pick at the knot of the rope around his legs. His own voice sounded
strange to him.

"I don't know what it's all about, any more than you do," he went on,
speaking to the others. "It's a fierce game we're up against, and we've
got to make the best of it. As soon as we can move, and talk, we'll
decide what's best to do. Whoever these fellows are, and I believe they
are the foreign spies I've been warned about, they are in complete
possession of the airship."

Tom found it no easy matter to loosen the bonds on his feet.  The ropes
were well tied, and Tom's fingers were stiff from the lack of
circulation of blood. But finally he managed to free himself. When he
stood up in the dim storeroom, that was now a prison for all save Koku,
he found that he could not walk. He almost toppled over, so weak were
his legs from the tightness of the ropes. He sat down and worked his
muscles until they felt normal again.

A few minutes later, weak and rather tottery, he managed to reach Mr.
Damon, whom he first unbound. He realized that Mr. Damon was the oldest
of his friends, and, consequently, would suffer most. And it was
characteristic of the eccentric gentleman that, as soon as his gag was
removed he burst out with:

"Bless my wristlets, Tom! What does it all mean?"

"That's more than I can say, Mr. Damon," replied Tom, with a mournful
shake of his head. "I'm very sorry it happened, for it looks as though
I hadn't taken proper care. The idea of those men stowing themselves
away on board here, and me not knowing it; and then coming out
unexpectedly and getting possession of the craft!  It doesn't speak
very well for my smartness."

"Oh, well, Tom, anyone might have been fooled by those plotting
foreigners," said Mr. Damon. "Now, we'll try to turn matters about and
get the best of them. Oh, but it feels good to be free once more!"

He stretched his benumbed and stiffened limbs and then helped Tom free
the others. They stood up, looking at each other in their dimly lighted
prison.

"Well, if this isn't the limit I don't know what is!" cried Ned Newton.

"They got the best of you, Tom," spoke Lieutenant Marbury.

"Are they really foreign spies?" asked Captain Warner.

"Yes," replied his assistant. "They managed to carry out the plot we
tried to frustrate. It was a good trick, too, hiding on board, and
coming out with a rush."

"Is that what they did?" asked Mr. Damon.

"It looks so," observed Tom. "The attack must have started in the
engine-room," he went on, with a look at Mound and Ventor.  "What
happened there?" he asked.

"Well, that's about the way it was," answered the engineer. "We were
working away, making some adjustments, oiling the parts and seeing that
everything was running smoothly, when, all at once, I heard Koku yell.
He had gone in the oil room. At first I thought something had gone
wrong with the ship, but, when I looked at the giant, I saw he was
being attacked by four strange men. And, before I, or any of the other
men, could do anything, they all swarmed down on us.

"There must have been a dozen of them, and they simply overwhelmed us.
One of them hit Koku on the head with an iron bar, and that took all
the fight out of the giant, or the story might have been a different
one. As it was, we were overpowered, and that's all I know until we
were carried in here, and saw you folks all tied up as we were."

"They burst in on us in the same way," Tom explained. "But where did
they come from? Where were they hiding?"

"In the oil and gasoline storeroom that opens out of the motor
compartment," answered Mound, the engineer. "It isn't half full, you
know, and there's room for more than a dozen men in it. They must have
gone in some time last night, when the airship was in the hangar, and
remained hidden among the boxes and barrels until they got ready to
come out and overpower us."

"That's it," decided Tom. "But I don't understand how they got in. The
hangar was well guarded all night."

"Some of your men might have been bribed," suggested Ned.

"Yes, that is so," admitted Tom, and, later, he learned that such had
been the case. The foreign spies, for such they were, had managed to
corrupt one of Tom's trusted employees, who had looked the other way
when La Foy and his fellow-conspirators sneaked into the airship shed
and secreted themselves.

"Well, discussing how they got on board isn't going to do us any good
now," Tom remarked ruefully. "The question is--what are we going to do?"

"Bless my fountain pen!" cried Mr. Damon. "There's only one thing to
do!"

"What is that?" asked Ned.

"Why, get out of here, call a policeman, and have these scoundrels
arrested. I'll prosecute them! I'll have my lawyer on hand to see that
they get the longest terms the statutes call for! Bless my pocketbook,
but I will!" and Mr. Damon waxed quite indignant.

"That's easier said than done," observed Tom Swift, quietly.  "In the
first place, it isn't going to be an easy matter to get out of here."

He looked around the storeroom, which was then their prison. It was
illuminated by a single electric light, which showed some boxes and
barrels piled in the rear.

"Nothing in them to help us get out," Tom went on, for he knew what the
contents were.

"Oh, we'll get out," declared Ned confidently, "but I don't believe
we'll find a policeman ready to take our complaint. The upper air isn't
very well patrolled as yet."

"That's so," agreed Mr. Damon. "I forgot that we were in an airship.
But what is to be done, Tom? We really are captives aboard our own
craft."

"Yes, worse luck," returned the young inventor. "I feel foolish when I
think how we let them take us prisoners."

"We couldn't help it," Ned commented. "They came on us too suddenly. We
didn't have a chance. And they outnumbered us two to one. If they could
take care of big Koku, what chance did we have?"

"Very little," said Engineer Mound. "They were desperate fellows. They
know something about aircraft, too. For, as soon as Koku, Ventor and I
were disposed of, some of them went at the machinery as if they had
been used to running it all their lives."

"Oh, the foreigners are experts when it comes to craft of the air,"
said Captain Warner.

"Well, they seem to be running her, all right," admitted the young
inventor, "and at good speed, too. They have increased our running
rate, if I am any judge."

"By several miles an hour," confirmed the assistant pilot.  "Though in
which direction they are heading, and what they are going to do with us
is more than I can guess."

"That's so!" agreed Mr. Damon. "What is to become of us? They may heave
us overboard into the ocean!"

"Into the ocean!" cried Ned apprehensively. "Are we near the sea?"

"We must be, by this time," spoke Tom. "We were headed in that
direction, and we have come almost far enough to put us somewhere over
the Atlantic, off the Jersey coast."

A look of apprehension was on the faces of all. But Tom's face did not
remain clouded long.

"We won't try to swim until we have to," he said. "Now, let's take an
account of stock, and see if we have any means of getting out of this
prison."




CHAPTER XXIII

ACROSS THE SEA


With one accord the hands of the captives sought their pockets.
Probably the first thought of each one was a knife--a pocket knife. But
blank looks succeeded their first hopeful ones, for the hands came out
empty.

"Not a thing!" exclaimed Mr. Damon. "Not a blessed thing! They have
even taken my keys and--my fountain pen!"

"I guess they searched us all while they were struggling with us, tying
us up," suggested Ned. "I had a knife with a big, strong blade, but
it's gone."

"So is mine," echoed Tom.

"And I haven't even a screwdriver, or a pocket-wrench," declared the
engineer, "though I had both."

"They evidently knew what they were doing," said Lieutenant Marbury. "I
don't usually carry a revolver, but of late I have had a small
automatic in my pocket. That's gone, too."

"And so are all my things," went on his naval friend. "That Frenchman,
La Foy, was taking no chances."

"Well, if we haven't any weapons, or means of getting out of here, we
must make them," said Tom, as hopefully as he could under the
circumstances. "I don't know all the things that were put in this
storeroom, and perhaps there may be something we can use."

"Shall we make the try now?" asked Ned. "I'm getting thirsty, at least.
Lucky we had supper before they came out at us."

"Well, there isn't any water in here, or anything to eat, of so much I
am sure," went on Tom  "So we will have to depend on our captors for
that."

"At least we can shout and ask for water," said Lieutenant Marbury.
"They have no excuse for being needlessly cruel."

They all agreed that this might not be a bad plan, and were preparing
to raise a united shout, when there came a knock on the door of their
prison.

"Are you willing to listen to reason?" asked a voice they recognized as
that of La Foy.

"What do you mean by reason?" asked Tom bitterly. "You have no right to
impose any conditions on us."

"I have the right of might, and I intend exercising it," was the sharp
rejoinder. "If you will listen to reason--"

"Which kind--yours or ours?" asked Tom pointedly.

"Mine, in this case," snapped back the Frenchman. "What I was going to
say was that I do not intend to starve you, or cause you discomfort by
thirst. I am going to open the door and put in food and water. But I
warn you that any attempt to escape will be met with severe measures.

"We are in sufficient force to cope with you. I think you have seen
that." He spoke calmly and in perfect English, though with a marked
accent. "My men are armed, and will stand here ready to meet violence
with violence," he went on. "Is that understood?"

For a moment none of the captives replied.

"I think it will be better to give in to him at least for a while,"
said Captain Warner in a low voice to Tom. "We need water, and will
soon need food. We can think and plan better if we are well nourished."

"Then you think I should promise not to raise a row?"

"For the time being--yes."

"Well, I am waiting!" came in sharp tones from the other side of the
portal.

"Our answer is--yes," spoke Tom. "We will not try to get out--just
yet," he added significantly.

A key was heard grating in the lock, and, a moment later, the door slid
back. Through the opening could be seen La Foy and some of his men
standing armed. Others had packages of food and jugs of water. A
plentiful supply of the latter was carried aboard the Mars.

"Keep back from the door!" was the stern command of La Foy.  "The food
and drink will be passed in only if you keep away from the entrance.
Remember my men are armed!"

The warning was hardly needed, for the weapons could plainly be seen.
Tom had half a notion that perhaps a concerted rush would carry the day
for him and his friends, but he was forced to abandon that idea.

While the guards looked on, others of the "pirate crew," as Ned dubbed
them, passed in food and water. Then the door was locked again.

They all felt better after drinking the water, which was made cool by
evaporation, for the airship was quite high above the earth when Tom's
enemies captured it, and the young inventor felt sure it had not
descended any.

No one felt much like eating, however, so the food was put away for a
time. And then, somewhat refreshed, they began looking about for some
means of getting out of their prison.

"Of course we might batter down the door, in time, by using some of
these boxes as rams," said Tom. "But the trouble is, that would make a
noise, and they could stand outside and drive us back with guns and
pistols, of which they seem to have plenty."

"Yes, and they could turn some of your own quick-firers on us," added
Captain Warner. "No, we must work quietly, I think, and take them
unawares, as they took us. That is our only plan."

"We will be better able to see what we have here by daylight," Tom
said. "Suppose we wait until morning?"

That plan was deemed best, and preparations made for spending the night
in their prison.

It was a most uncomfortable night for all of them. The floor was their
only bed, and their only covering some empty bags that had contained
supplies. But even under these circumstances they managed to doze off
fitfully.

Once they were all awakened by a violent plunging of the airship. The
craft seemed to be trying to stand on her head, and then she rocked
violently from side to side, nearly turning turtle. "What is it?"
gasped Ned, who was lying next to Tom.

"They must be trying some violent stunts," replied the young inventor,
"or else we have run into a storm."

"I think the latter is the case," observed Lieutenant Marbury.

And, as the motion of the craft kept up, though less violently, this
was accepted as the explanation. Through the night the Mars flew, but
whither the captives knew not.

The first gray streaks of dawn finally shone through the only window of
their prison. Sore, lame and stiff, wearied in body and disturbed in
mind, the captives awoke. Tom's first move was toward the window. It
was high up, but, by standing on a box, he could look through it. He
uttered an exclamation.

"What is it?" asked Ned, swaying to and fro from the violent motion of
the aerial warship.

"We are away out over the sea," spoke Tom, "and in the midst of a bad
storm."




CHAPTER XXIV

THE LIGHTNING BOLT


Tom turned away from the window, to find his companions regarding him
anxiously.

"A storm," repeated Ned. "What sort?"

"It might turn into any sort," replied Tom. "All I can see now is a lot
of black clouds, and the wind must be blowing pretty hard, for there's
quite a sea on."

"Bless my galvanometer!" cried Mr. Damon. "Then we are out over the
ocean again, Tom?"

"Yes, there's no doubt of it."

"What part?" asked the assistant pilot.

"That's more than I can tell," Tom answered.

"Suppose I take a look?" suggested Captain Warner. "I've done quite a
bit of sailing in my time."

But, when he had taken a look through the window at which Tom had been
standing, the naval officer descended, shaking his head.

"There isn't a landmark in sight," he announced. "We might be over the
middle of the Atlantic, for all I could tell."

"Hardly as far as that," spoke Tom. "They haven't been pushing the Mars
at that speed. But we may be across to the other side before we realize
it."

"How's that?" asked Ned.

"Well, the ship is in the possession of these foreign spies," went on
Tom. "All their interests are in Europe, though it would be hard to say
what nationality is in command here. I think there are even some
Englishmen among those who attacked us, as well as French, Germans,
Italians and Russians."

"Yes, it seems to be a combination of European nations against us,"
admitted Captain Warner. "Probably, after they have made good their
seizure of Tom's aerial warship, they will portion her out among
themselves, or use her as a model from which to make others."

"Do you think that is their object?" asked Mr. Damon.

"Undoubtedly," was the captain's answer. "It has been the object of
these foreign spies, all along, not only to prevent the United States
from enjoying the benefits of these progressive inventions, but to use
them for themselves. They would stop at nothing to gain their ends. It
seems we did not sufficiently appreciate their power and daring."

"Well, they've got us, at any rate," observed Tom, "and they may take
us and the ship to some far-off foreign country."

"If they don't heave us overboard half-way there," commented Ned, in
rather gloomy tones.

"Well, of course, there's that possibility," admitted Tom.  "They are
desperate characters."

"Well, we must do something," declared Lieutenant Marbury.  "Come, it's
daylight now, and we can see to work better. Let's see if we can't find
a way to get out of this prison. Say, but this sure is a storm!" he
cried, as the airship rolled and pitched violently.

"They are handling her well, though," observed Tom, as the craft came
quickly to an even keel. "Either they have a number of expert birdmen
on board, or they can easily adapt themselves to a new aircraft. She is
sailing splendidly."

"Well, let's eat something, and set to work," proposed Ned.

They brought out the food which had been given to them the night
before, but before they could eat this, there came a knock on the door,
and more food and fresh water was handed in, under the same precautions
as before.

Tom and his companions indignantly demanded to be released, but their
protests were only laughed at, and while the guards stood with ready
weapons the door was again shut and locked.

But the prisoners were not the kind to sit idly down in the face of
this. Under Tom's direction they set about looking through their place
of captivity for something by which they could release themselves. At
first they found nothing, and Ned even suggested trying to cut a way
through the wooden walls with a fingernail file, which he found in one
of his pockets, when Tom, who had gone to the far end of the storeroom,
uttered a cry.

"What is it--a way out?" asked Lieutenant Marbury anxiously.

"No, but means to that end," Tom replied. "Look, a file and a saw, left
here by some of my workmen, perhaps," and he brought out the tools. He
had found them behind a barrel in the far end of the compartment.

"Hurray!" cried Ned. "That's the ticket! Now we'll soon show these
fellows what's what!"

"Go easy!" cautioned Tom. "We must work carefully. It won't do to slam
around and try to break down the door with these. I think we had better
select a place on the side wall, break through that, and make an
opening where we can come out unnoticed. Then, when we are ready, we
can take them by surprise. We'll have to do something like that, for
they outnumber us, you know."

"That is so," agreed Captain Warner. "We must use strategy."

"Well, where would be a good place to begin to burrow out?" asked Ned.

"Here," said Tom, indicating a place far back in the room. "We can work
there in turns, sawing a hole through the wall. It will bring us out in
the passage between the aft and amidship cabins, and we can go either
way."

"Then let's begin!" cried Ned enthusiastically, and they set to work.

While the aerial warship pitched and tossed in the storm, over some
part of the Atlantic, Tom and his friends took turns in working their
way to freedom. With the sharp end of the file a small hole was made,
the work being done as slowly as a rat gnaws, so as to make no noise
that would be heard by their captors. In time the hole was large enough
to admit the end of the saw.

But this took many hours, and it was not until the second day of their
captivity that they had the hole nearly large enough for the passage of
one person at a time. They had not been discovered, they thought.

Meanwhile they had been given food and water at intervals, but to all
demands that they be released, or at least told why they were held
prisoners, a deaf ear was turned.

They could only guess at the fate of Koku. Probably the giant was kept
bound, for once he got the chance to use his enormous strength it might
go hard with the foreigners.

The Mars continued to fly through the air. Sometimes, as Tom and his
friends could tell by the motion, she was almost stationary in the
upper regions, and again she seemed to be flying at top speed.
Occasionally there came the sound of firing.

"They're trying my guns," observed Tom grimly.

"Do you suppose they are being attacked?" asked Ned, hopefully.

"Hardly," replied Captain Warner. "The United States possesses no craft
able to cope with this one in aerial warfare, and they are hardly
engaging in part of the European war yet. I think they are just trying
Tom's new guns."

Later our friends learned that such was the case.

The storm had either passed, or the Mars had run out of the path of it,
for, after the first few hours of pitching and tossing, the atmosphere
seemed reduced to a state of calm.

All the while they were secretly working to gain their freedom so they
might attack and overpower their enemies, they took occasional
observations from the small window. But they could learn nothing of
their whereabouts. They could only view the heaving ocean, far below
them, or see a mass of cloud-mist, which hid the earth, if so be that
the Mars was sailing over land.

"But how much longer can they keep it up?" asked Ned.

"Well, we have fuel and supplies aboard for nearly two weeks," Tom
answered.

"And by the end of that time we may all be dead," spoke the young bank
clerk despondently.

"No, we'll be out of here before then!" declared Lieutenant Marbury.

Indeed the hole was now almost large enough to enable them to crawl out
one at a time. They could not, of course, see how it looked from the
outside, but Tom had selected a place for its cutting so that the
sawdust and the mark of the panel that was being removed, would not
ordinarily be noticeable.

They set night as the time for making the attempt--late at night, when
it was hoped that most of their captors would be asleep.

Finally the last cut was made, and a piece of wood hung over the
opening only by a shred, all ready to knock out.

"We'll do it at midnight," announced Tom.

Anxious, indeed, were those last hours of waiting. The time had almost
arrived for the attempt, when Tom, who had been nervously pacing to and
fro, remarked:

"We must be running into another storm. Feel how she heaves and rolls!"

Indeed the Mars was most unsteady.

"It sure is a storm!" cried Ned, "and a heavy one, too," for there came
a burst of thunder, that seemed like a report of Tom's giant cannon.

In another instant they were in the midst of a violent thunderstorm,
the airship pitching and tossing in a manner to almost throw them from
their feet.

As Tom reached up to switch on the electric light again, there came a
flash of lightning that well nigh blinded them. And so close after it
as to seem simultaneous, there came such a crash of thunder as to stun
them all. There was a tingling, as of a thousand pins and needles in
the body of each of the captives, and a strong smell of sulphur. Then,
as the echoes of the clap died away, Tom yelled:

"She's been struck!  The airship has been struck!"




CHAPTER XXV

FREEDOM


For a moment there was silence, following Tom's wild cry and the noise
of the thunderclap. Then, as other, though less loud reverberations of
the storm continued to sound, the captives awoke to a realization of
what had happened. They had been partially stunned, and were almost as
in a dream.

"Are--are we all right?" stammered Ned.

"Bless my soul! What has happened?" cried Mr. Damon.

"We've been struck by lightning!" Tom repeated. "I don't know whether
we're all right or not."

"We seem to be falling!" exclaimed Lieutenant Marbury.

"If the whole gas bag isn't ripped to pieces we're lucky," commented
Jerry Mound.

Indeed, it was evident that the Mars was sinking rapidly. To all there
came the sensation of riding in an elevator in a skyscraper and being
dropped a score of stories.

Then, as they stood there in the darkness, illuminated only by flashes
from the lightning outside the window, waiting for an unknown fate, Tom
Swift uttered a cry of delight.

"We've stopped falling!" he cried. "The automatic gas machine is
pumping. Part of the gas bag was punctured, but the unbroken
compartments hold!"

"If part of the gas leaked out I don't see why it wasn't all set on
fire and exploded," observed Captain Warner.

"It's a non-burnable gas," Tom quickly explained. "But come on.  This
may be our very chance. There seems to be something going on that may
be in our favor."

Indeed the captives could hear confused cries and the running to and
fro of many feet.

He made for the sawed panel, and, in another instant, had burst out and
was through it, out into the passageway between the after and amidship
cabins. His companions followed him.

They looked into the rear cabin, or motor compartment, and a scene of
confusion met their gaze. Two of the foreign men who had seized the
ship lay stretched out on the floor near the humming machinery, which
had been left to run itself. A look in the other direction, toward the
main cabin, showed a group of the foreign spies bending over the inert
body of La Foy, the Frenchman, stretched out on a couch.

"What has happened?" cried Ned. "What does it all mean?'

"The lightning!" exclaimed Tom. "The bolt that struck the ship has
knocked out some of our enemies! Now is the time to attack them!"

The Mars seemed to have passed completely through a narrow storm belt.
She was now in a quiet atmosphere, though behind her could be seen the
fitful play of lightning, and there could be heard the distant rumble
of thunder.

"Come on!" cried Tom. "We must act quickly, while they are demoralized!
Come on!"

His friends needed no further urging. Jerry Mound and the machinist
rushed to the engine-room, to look after any of the enemy that might be
there, while Tom, Ned and the others ran into the middle cabin.

"Grab 'em! Tie 'em up!" cried Tom, for they had no weapons with which
to make an attack.

But none were needed. So stunned were the foreigners by the lightning
bolt, which had miraculously passed our friends, and so unnerved by the
striking down of La Foy, their leader, that they seemed like men half
asleep. Before they could offer any resistance they were bound with the
same ropes that had held our friends in bondage. That is, all but the
big Frenchman himself.  He seemed beyond the need of binding.

Mound, the engineer, and his assistant, came hurrying in from the
motor-room, followed by Koku.

"We found him chained up," Jerry explained, as the big giant, freed
from his captivity, rubbed his chafed wrists.

"Are there any of the foreigners back there?'

"Only those two knocked out by the lightning," the engineer explained.
"We've made them secure. I see you've got things here in shape."

"Yes," replied Tom. "And now to see where we are, and to get back home.
Whew! But this has been a time! Koku, what happened to you?"

"They no let anything happen. I be in chains all the while," the giant
answered. "Jump on me before I can do anything!"

"Well, you're out, now, and I think we'll have you stand guard over
these men. The tables are turned, Koku."

The bound ones were carried to the same prison whence our friends had
escaped, but their bonds were not taken off, and Koku was put in the
place with them. By this time La Foy and the two other stricken men
showed signs of returning life. They had only been stunned.

The young inventor and his friends, once more in possession of their
airship, lost little time in planning to return. They found that the
spies were all expert aeronauts, and had kept a careful chart of their
location. They were then halfway across the Atlantic, and in a short
time longer would probably have been in some foreign country. But Tom
turned the Mars about.

The craft had only been slightly damaged by the lightning bolt, though
three of the gas bag compartments were torn, The others sufficed,
however, to make the ship sufficiently buoyant.

When morning came Tom and his friends had matters running almost as
smoothly as before their capture.

The prisoners had no chance to escape, and, indeed, they seemed to have
been broken in spirit. La Foy was no longer the insolent, mocking
Frenchman that he had been, and the two chief foreign engineers seemed
to have lost some of their reason when the lightning struck them.

"But it was a mighty lucky and narrow escape for us," said Ned, as he
and Tom sat in the pilot-house the second day of the return trip.

"That's right," agreed his chum.

Once again they were above the earth, and, desiring to get rid as soon
as possible of the presence of the spies, a landing was made near New
York City, and the government authorities communicated with. Captain
Warner and Lieutenant Marbury took charge of the prisoners, with some
Secret Service men, and the foreigners were soon safely locked up.

"And now what are you going to do, Tom?" asked Ned, when, once more,
they had the airship to themselves.

"I'm going back to Shopton, fix up the gas bag, and give her another
government trial," was the answer.

And, in due time, this was done. Tom added some improvements to the
aircraft, making it better than ever, and when she was given the test
required by the government, she was an unqualified success, and the
rights to the Mars were purchased for a large sum. In sailing, and in
the matter of guns and bombs, Tom's craft answered every test.

"So you see I was right, after all, Dad," the young inventor said, when
informed that he had succeeded. "We can shoot off even bigger guns than
I thought from the deck of the Mars."

"Yes, Tom," replied the aged inventor, "I admit I was wrong."

Tom's aerial warship was even a bigger success than he had dared to
hope. Once the government men fully understood how to run it, in which
Tom played a prominent part in giving instructions, they put the Mars
to a severe test. She was taken out over the ocean, and her guns
trained on an obsolete battleship. Her bombs and projectiles blew the
craft to pieces.

"The Mars will be the naval terror of the seas in any future war,"
predicted Captain Warner.

The Secret Service men succeeded in unearthing all the details of the
plot against Tom. His life, at times, had been in danger, but at the
last minute the man detailed to harm him lost his nerve.

It was Tom's enemies who had set on fire the red shed, and who later
tried to destroy the ship by putting a corrosive acid in one of the
propellers. That plot, though, was not wholly successful. Then came the
time when one of the spies hid on board, and dropped the copper bar on
the motor, short-circuiting it. But for the storage-battery that scheme
might have wrought fearful damage. The spy who had stowed himself away
on the craft escaped at night by the connivance of one of Tom's corrupt
employees.

The foreign spies were tried and found guilty, receiving merited
punishment. Of course the governments to which they belonged disclaimed
any part in the seizure of Tom's aerial warship.

It came out at the trial that one of Tom's most trusted employees had
proved a traitor, and had the night before the test, allowed the
foreign spies to secrete themselves on board, to rush out at an
opportune time to overpower our hero and his friends. But luck was with
Tom at the end.

"Well, what are you going to tackle next, Tom?" asked Ned, one day
about a month after these exciting experiences.

"I don't know," was the slow answer. "I think a self-swinging hammock,
under an apple tree, with a never-emptying pitcher of ice-cold lemonade
would be about the thing."

"Good, Tom! And, if you'll invent that, I'll share it with you."

"Well, come on, let's begin now," laughed Tom. "I need a vacation,
anyhow."

But it is very much to be doubted if Tom Swift, even on a vacation,
could refrain from trying to invent something, either in the line of
airships, water, or land craft. And so, until he again comes to the
front with something new, we will take leave of him.

The End
